[david:0001] Researcher 1: Perfect. And so if could you explain a little bit about your field of research and the typical research methods you used to gather data
[david:0002] David: Okay, yeah, so my main building research is in self-tracking practices - in running in particular. So I'm looking to understand how people use their smart watches or other types of devices. and I tend to do this by running with people, so it's a participatory method. So, um, a particular method that I use is using the 360-degree action camera. So, I record The app, the actions of the participants, as well as have an interview with them. So use it [for] more open-ended questions, really. So I tend to, you know, they’re semi-structured interviews, but they can quite often be open as well. So unstructured these as well, but, that's kind of the typical method. And another method I use are just using virtual interviews. So they're, they're the, primarily the three that I use. So, my 360 camera action camera, face to face interviews, and online interviews like this one.
[david:0003] Researcher 1: Perfect. Now, that's really interesting. I, Like running with people and it's like a very active participant, observation method.
[david:0004] David: Yes, it's quite new. I think certainly in information science/information studies, which is, it's not really been done before. So there have been studies before in running, but that tends to be like geography. Or sort of sociology with like, the embodied sort of, in embodiment - that kind of stuff. So, the sociology in the body and, but people have tended to us, just a camera like a 180 camera on that kind of, there's been some issues. So I just pushed that forward a bit. So then you've got an opportunity for observation after the event. to use a VR headset as well, to immerse myself back into the data.
[david:0005] Researcher 1: Wow, that sounds really great. And what methods do you use to analyse your data or…
[david:0006] David: And I'm actually,…
[david:0007] Researcher 1: ….any tools or software like that? You just
[david:0008] David: …so the framework that I [use is] situational analysis, and so that's like a step on from grounded theory method. So, that's that's kind of where I sit. So it's those kinds of tools and techniques. So specifically, I don't, I don't tend to use things like Atlas Ti or other qualitative, Nvivo., things like that. I tend to be more actually, [a] pen and paper kind of person. At those things. And then I will transfer those maps onto, I use inspiration IE9, which is provided by the University Software Center. So, it gives, that's, that's where I start to actually record my physical findings. So to come back to situational analysis, and how that maps to the mapping that I do. You have, you kind of see, develop the sensitizing concepts, and then you write them down like a messy map. It's like a big piece of paper. Just write all the words, it doesn't matter how they relate to each other. And then you start to, you move on to the second part, which - relational analysis is just to start with one of the concepts and the ideas, and just relate them to everything else that's on your map. You start to see how relationships form, and you do that each of the concepts. That [takes] quite a lot of thinking time. And while I'm doing that,  I've got a book at site, I make - making sort of notes as I am going along. So, that's kind of the main bit. And then after that, you analyze something, the positional maps. So the XY, It's not, it's not, it sounds a lot more quantitative than [it] actually is! This [is] entirely qualitative to sort of put a concept along the bottom on, like a scale, and another concept, and then you map into the middle some ideas. And that's really good for seeing what data you've got, where things are congregating, and, but you can also see the gaps and silences, which is all that's interesting too. So highly qualitative, highly interpretive methods. Yeah.
[david:0009] Researcher 1: Yeah. But that's, and since that sounds really interesting and well, so you mentioned a little bit of your methods, and, but I would like you to expand on your experience of working with qualitative data in your, in your research.
[david:0010] David: I'm, is that with particularly just the data [that] are generated and analysis. Yeah. It's, I think. To some extent being, yeah, that qualitative research is, it's kind of like it's mine[field] in a way too, I think, and that's So acutely aware, and I put this into all my justifications and everything, and I don't really call it a limitation. I think it's more of a kind of how I sit in the research. So the positionality is a research on very much in that particular research. So that's something that I actually embrace. Whereas I think other paradigms are be get out of there, you should be impartial, you should be away from. This was like what I argue. The philosophy was, search approaches very much like this is my insider information - that I add to the process. So it's an abductive process. That's very much here. Some data, here's my experience, here’s other people, and this is what results. So, I think what I produce in terms of the analysis is very much, I am aware, it's my interpretation of the data. For me, trying to, I do try and build rigour into my research. But that tends to be more through transparency. But I also have attention there because the data that I collected audio visuals 360, And I have the participants for me. I've got the duty of care to them, and they do come first as far as I'm concerned. So, when I get the consent from them, and I explained very early on about UK data archives, or Sheffield's, repositories and things like that of what potentially could happen later. So, from that respect, with the, with the audio-visual data, I'm particularly sensitive, how that's getting managed. And I build in checks and measures throughout my research, to say I'm doing this with it. Now, I'm doing this with it now. At what point got to start processing it for the purposes of sort of GDPRr as well, but just, it's just good relationship, really, with the participants - of I am doing this with your audio visual stuff, which by the way is research data, and that does present problems in the sense of people want things up like their faces blurred out which - we're doing this kind of thing - is really not what to say, because I can see the benefits that if I put this in the UKDA and put an embargo on it for 10 or 15 years, that might be useful for somebody in 10-15 years time say, but it's not going to be that useful in the interim, but, so for me, that's [a] particular challenge. And then and then the other side of it is constantly the data that I produced for diagrams and things are using those situated situational analysis tools. The messy mapping, the relational mapping, and the positional maps. I keep those, and because I want to show my workings out to the - partly other researchers. So the idea there, is to deposit all that kind of stuff as well, actually to be open and transparent. So, that's how I'm trying to demonstrate the rigour. But there's that difficulty in, I'm quite happy to give - not give away - but to share my analysis. But what's harder is convincing participants of their higher personal data of their faces, that their actions, and that kind…especially the 360 environment, of having that transferred to a data. However, all the right security, and all the right protections. So yeah, the audio visual bit from these - the challenge as opposed to - you know, producing a transcripts and putting transcripts, it's not being able to access that data that I've collected because I feel I should. It's something that I think would be useful to other researchers. I didn't want that to be open, but comes with that huge tension of - and people's personal data rights.
[david:0011] Researcher 1: Yeah. Oh yeah, that sounds, like, very challenging. Well in terms [of], with the audio-visual material that you have, and what is your? Well, I imagine from what you said, like a little bit of what you're going to say, but like - what is your perception around open research, and if you have done it before,
[david:0012] David: I really think that the general perception of it is that it is a very good thing to encourage, because I think it encourages collaboration and interdisciplinary research as well. and especially this kind of data that connect is, and somebody else could see all the visual data, they can see completely different things in it by the very nature [of] qualitative, I think it's, it, I feel like maybe that's a contribution as well, that if I can put open, then somebody else can use that for their own research and it could spark something new. Whereas, if it's closed, it's just the kind of the traditional - this data will get deleted at the end of the project, or this thing, or will be retained for like a year and then it will be completely destroyed. It's like well, there's a lot of effort that's actually gone into the collection of that, personal preferences aside, and it would just be great that people could actually access that on open. Yeah. Does that answer the question?
[david:0013] Researcher 1: Yeah. Yes. Yes. And then it is very well, it's very linked to my next question, which is about your perceptions of making qualitative and data open access.I imagine it's the same or similar discourse.
[david:0014] David: Yeah, I just think it's a very, very hard thing to do, especially when you've got human participants involved and you are using photographs, audio-visual. I think that's, that [is] particularly hard to do. I think it's easier to share transcripts because you interview, transcripts, so saying things that are going on [in] the new environment, you know, somebody points at something, or this, there's something that's happened in, kind of describe it. I think that's fine, again, like my analysis, that's fine. Just just. Yeah, just I can, it's openness and transparency. I think it comes back to that, as, as a researcher to say, This is what I came up with, with the data that I collected. This is how I analyzed it, because I, I do tend to find a lot of papers. And I quite like to see the workings out, that kind of thing, even if I don't agree with how they got there. It's interesting to see how they got there, and that again, could be a new avenue of work, really?
[david:0015] David: It'd be interested to see people who are claiming to use the same methodologies. How they get there, how they get to those results. That's very much…
[david:0016] Researcher 1: Yeah.
[david:0017] David: …how we differ from, what my perception of, how we differ from quantitative stuff. Done that idea of reproducibility, of, I, I'm, I [am] firmly aware that somebody would interpret the data that I collected completely, and come up with different, for want of a better word, results.
[david:0018] David: …but it's not really my research, which way.
[david:0019] Researcher 1: Yeah.
[david:0020] David: But yeah, open it all up is where possible, Where legal, where ethical Yeah.
[david:0021] Researcher 1: Yeah, I like that. Open when possible, and when it is legal, and it's a good point to make. And well, you've talked a little bit about these, but I would like you to expand on the perceived, or any perceived barriers you find in, in making - barriers or challenges in making open - but qualitative data - open access.
[david:0022] David: Okay, yes, definitely. The first one I have thoughts about, which is a respective participant’s right to anonymity, or respecting the basis of consent of which you've collected data from them. I think. That's a particular barrier with audio data. Sorry, are really reiterate, that one - and I think another one is, well, is, I think it might come more for me, but it's kind of having that confidence of asking the right questions to the right people. So it's there is a there is a bit of a barrier in who do I go to? So I know you should go to the university library, go and talk to the RDM, to the research data management people, but it's a bit like, where do I even start? I think the same applies to UKDA as well, because they, I mean, they've got a fantastic website of how to deposit things, but then there's that question of money, of the funding that's needed to deposit it. So, if you do need to put it in U DA, which is attractive me - because as a security, audio-visual stuff - and it's just, it's just trying to find that part of money to do that, yeah, to do that for me. And I don't really want to delete the data, but then, you know, that's what I told the participants I would do - if that's what they, that's they’ve signed for. So, but I think a way around that particular barrier is that, it's the, sort your participant information for consent mechanisms out really early on, and have that working relationship with the participant all the way through with what you're doing. So, when it comes to UKDA or ORDA or, you know, deposited it with, yeah, that's fine. So it's all my data management plan. So, Yeah.
[david:0023] Researcher 1: Yeah. Perfect. And what about the enabling factors? You consider there is any enabling factor that, to encourage people to do, but to open their qualitative data, or which would be an enabling factor.
[david:0024] David: What? You clarify it - an enabling factor - for me, please?
[david:0025] Researcher 1: Well, for example, from my perspective, I think that some factors that would enable researchers to make their qualitative data open access. It will be that. And in many cases, or now it's getting more common that funders require these, so it would be like funding and…
[david:0026] David: Yes. Okay. So it's Yeah, I definitely think, if that's on a research grant, or an application, is that what I've got to do it? I don't always think that's the right spirit of doing, that's my personal take. I think this. I think if you're gonna foster open research culture, especially in qualitative research, that's a culture change. That's, yes, it can come about by a funder going “You have to do this”, but then that, I'm a bit more, you know, it's a bit more sort of regulatory, like I have to do it because otherwise, I'm not going to get from them. Whereas, if you, if there is a bigger open research culture is actually fostered, then there's going to be less resistance to it because that's what we should be doing anyway, so I'm fully, fully endorse that open research like culture anyway, so you've probably pushing on [an] open door with me in that respect. But I can see pockets. I can see the pockets of resistance, and I think for some people that will get them to do it, if it's Ii the grant or in the application, like have you thought about what you're going to do [with] your data? Beyond that, and can't really think of any, yeah, any other enabling factors? I mean. To me it kind of spreads like a network. So if you've got some, like, like a data champion or open research data champion network, and you've embedded those in the department, I mean that's one way that you can encourage that culture through best practice. Just, you know, remind people when you're in a research group meeting, or even doing that, we'll talk about it, and it's like, you know, it's like “Oh well, they're doing it”. That's the person I need to go to, and then that kind of fosters that openness of good practice. See that, that would be one way of enabling people to, or even just understand what it is.
[david:0027] Researcher 1: Mm-hmm. Yeah. Like increasing awareness or training on open.
[david:0028] David: Yes. Yes. That's just keep that message going, you know, just especially in qualitative research, I think, okay, but I just feel - as a qualitative one - as an early career researcher, qualitative researcher - you feel the need to have to keep proving yourself a bit. And, you know, it's that, I do have that kind of feeling where I was. Well, there's like data science goes off, and maths and stuff, and I like, it's quite kind of, yeah, you know, looks like experiments all that kind of thing. But it's more trying to understand. It was interpret things, I just feel enough to keep justifying myself a bit more and really over-emphasizing how I got to the final guided, but yeah.
[david:0029] Researcher 1: Mmm. Yeah. Well, you've talked a little bit about the ethics, where your ethics in regards, making your qualitative, that data open access in terms of protecting your participants or gaining ethical approvals, could you explain a little bit more about that?
[david:0030] David: Sure. So, I just and, [in] my particular sort of instance, I am quite keen on explaining to the participants exactly what I'm doing with the data flow now, because I'm in the [DEPARTMENT REDACTED], I guess I've got a little bit. Yeah, that's something that's quite important to me anyway but it is to show to the participants precisely what it is we do with it. Again it comes up, the transparency, so to supplement like participant information form and [consent] form. I've actually got is, I use a series of, like, not cartoons, but like pictures, step by step pictures. Really force where the data goes, what happens to it, like decision points and things like that. Just to make it really, really clear. So obviously, I don't know what other researchers do, but I spend probably disproportionate amount of time with my participants, explaining things early on, so later on there isn't those retrospective points where you have to then go back to them. I really want to do this with the data. By the way, I want to put it in here. I want to put it in this repository, it's, it's their start and then they're just reminded every time we contact them, and every, that I want to yeah, use their data for certain things and what's going to do so yeah. More time at the start of them, that's the biggest ethics thing I do and of course that gets written into the ethics applications as well.
[david:0031] Researcher 1: Yeah.
[david:0032] David: …of data security, as well as the safety of the participants and that kind of thing. Which is, it says…
[david:0033] Researcher 1: Yeah.
[david:0034] David: …yeah, a lot of planning up from, which is fine because then you get, I find I think that also helps fostering a good relationship with the participants as well. So you get, they get a good experience and research experiences at work, and then you've just got better cooperation to do things with, because everything's, everything, everything's, so you just try and make that as easy as possible, really? I try to.
[david:0035] Researcher 1: Yeah. Yeah, I think that's a very good practice, like, to like, using pictures to show. participants how, how [their] data is going to be handled, and where is it going to be the posted. I think that's a very good practice.
[david:0036] David: Thanks. I, I give them, like, a menu as well. Like, I give them some three options and it's quite clear like total amount. Anonymity, you know, it's completely up to them how they want it done, then I give them the completely open option, and I explained that, and then what I tend to find happens is they meet in the middle, so I call it tailored. So you've got closed open, and then a constructive discussion with the participant - and what they would be happy with. So then you, then I record that as well, and I've got a record of that. That's all ‘Participant. D doesn't want that. Participant A is happy for everything to be completely’, so you know who you're working with and what? Yeah, I do that as well.
[david:0037] Researcher 1: Yeah, that's, that sounds like a really good practice. I guess so far I haven't heard anyone, and telling me that like, they go to that length with the participants. I mean they do tend to have like, these conversations, like very extended conversations, but I think that having, like, a visual aid makes [it] easier for, like, any - well lay person.
[david:0038] David: Then, because I use them in my thesis, they're in the they're in my thesis. So got my thesis link, they're in appendix like. One, two, something like that. So they, they're there to save. I haven't really made your way beyond that, really, but if it's, if it's seen as, like, good practice and, we'll help make data a lot more open in qualitative Work, then yeah, happy to share that.
[david:0039] Researcher 1: Hmm. Yeah, yes that would be great. And I mean, I mean, so far, like, from my perspective, I think it is very good practice. It's something that I would consider doing for other projects, because before, when I did my PhD, I didn't really know much about open data. So I ensure my participants like complete anonymity and so I cannot, what the positives is [to] this day. So,
[david:0040] David: I think I, probably because I've sort of worked for about, but before I did my PhD here to work careers, I was like information management. So I did a lot of work around, as it was data protection and now GDPR. So, I come to research having that knowledge of how data protection works, and what you can do, and how you can collect things. So, [I] haven't written FAIR polices and privacy, notices, and things like that. I just, I just put that into my research ethics of how to leave, how to ethically sort of get data in that way. So yeah, I can see the attraction on closing it, although. Yeah. Yeah, it depends what again, also depends on your topic. So if, you, highly sensitive, then you wouldn't want their data, right? But in that case, I would seek, I would try and seek some kind of alternative of working from the position of closed. I work from [a] position of everything's open then kind of get negotiated down because it's not in my gift to tell the participant “this should be open”. That's up to them. But if you start from the position of closed, you can't really move. So that, they'll just go or close it. Yeah. I'm trying, I think I think it's entirely compatible. But because, so situational analysis space, yeah, it's based on sort of [THEORIST REDACTED], so it's poststructural anyway, and then the extra stuff that I do is like new materialism as well, so it's all very much, it's all a bit messy, anyway. But I just, I sort of taking, so I, I use [APPOACH REDACTED] so, everything's kind of, bits of entities and that kind of thing, is how everything fits and relates together. So, it's, to me, is that - if you push that data open, somebody else can join in, you know, take those bits of data that you've collected, and they can then move that into a different direction, and create something else. So it's that idea of reuse. Using that data. So for me, that entirely fits my research philosophy, that I believe really, and so it's kind of more the barrier - and just keep building on it and that kind of thing. So I'm very much into relational complexities of things and how everything fits. Although my research is quite small picture, it just tries to develop into a bigger picture, a bigger picture, a bigger picture. So the more people that are coming in later can add to that, kind of thing. Yeah. It's quite nice. It's quite nice, open, flexible, really. So that's
[david:0041] Researcher 1: Yeah.
[david:0042] David: …Yeah, there's no, there's no one way of seeing.
[david:0043] Researcher 1: Yeah. And well you've mentioned this before but I will ask anyway, and so how likely is that you make your own data? Well qualitative data open access and…
[david:0044] David: …so, depending upon the participants, and highly likely, yes.
[david:0045] Researcher 1: Yeah.
[david:0046] David: Yeah, participant, legal constraints really? Money.
[david:0047] Researcher 1: Yeah.
[david:0048] David: So, there are three things, I think that would limit that activity. But the intent for me as a researcher, certainly that, yeah.
[david:0049] Researcher 1: Yeah, and would you use qualitative data generated by others on an open access basis as a secondary data set?
[david:0050] David: Absolutely, if I hold it. Yeah. Obviously, it depends what I'm doing and that kind of thing. And I would caveat that as well, with, so like the trust in the repository as well. So, in the repository that I'm actually set from, so for example, I'll be a lot less likely to use something like Internet Archive, if you put data all there, if it's just before this UKDA, or institutional repository of data sets, that, yes certainly,  yeah…
[david:0051] Researcher 1: Yeah.
[david:0052] David: …so there's that data quality issue there I think. But yeah…
[david:0053] Researcher 1: Yeah.
[david:0054] David: …definitely. More than happy to use it.
[david:0055] Researcher 1: Perfect. Thank you. And you have any awareness or existing guidance or resources for making qualitative data open access. It can be in the university or more broadly.
[david:0056] David: Yeah, as I was, I'm aware the [research support] they do, what they provide enough, I've been in touch with other than that, kind of guidance. So I know they have their own guidance on Web pages and things but I just like to get in touch with the actual people, and beyond that there is the UK data archive, for a lot of guidance on what to do. So I spent quite a bit of time in there, just understanding what I can do within limits, that kind of thing. I know they're not entirely open, because you need a password to start. To me, that gives the data a bit of reassurance that not everybody's looking at it. It's kind of being used in that, so, it's [a] bit of attention, really, because, like stuff just being open. but, as a resource, where you've got that piece of mind that your date is going there, and will be, you know, all the relevant descriptive, metadata will go on there and that at least can be found. I'm thinking more about my audio-visual stuff at the moment. What participant hasn't asked to be masked as it were? And there's stuff like transcripts, and that - that can just go straight out in the ether or wherever.
[david:0057] Researcher 1: Yeah, perfect. And what do you think is needed, or would be useful to make your own research data open access?
[david:0058] David: Let me see. I guess what would be quite nice is a sort of note, just kind of like a set of guidelines and I steps to follow, who to talk to. I'll come back to the old age of money as well. Where funding is available for that kind of - specially for audio-visual - it's quite a little bit more complex and, but I think the resources are out there to do it. But I do think it comes back to awareness, and that kind of thing, so, because I've always been quite interested in the idea of reproducibility and qualitative data. Which yeah, I'm not convinced you can with interpretive paradigms? But at least if you get the stuff out there, that's transparent, and raise awareness of doing something. Then that would definitely foster open research, I think, to use open data to deposit?
[david:0059] Researcher 1: Yeah. Yeah. This, I think you have a good, you made a good point. That is not possible like, to well, like, to have this reproducibility with qualitative data. But yeah, it would increase transparency and trust in the research process,
[david:0060] David: Yeah.
[david:0061] Researcher 1: And well, how it is, how is your workflow like from generating, well to generate open qualitative research - from planning the project to that data repository?
[david:0062] David: …and not that, that hangs around the data, the DMP, the data management plan, so that's come from the conception of the project. and I'm already thinking, what? Oh yeah, they're going to DMP. I like, what file form, that's where that's gonna go, that's gonna end up. That part for me, is part of the digital reservation planning, as well, of, if I want these datasets to last forever, then I need to make sure that the right deposit is attractive enough to keep people going. And so for me, it's all at the start of the project. It's not, it's not [a] retrospective thing, it's [at the] start. And that sets in train everything else thereafter, every process of workflow. managing data at those data points. Yes. But I suppose I use FAIR principles about, well, just generally curating my data throughout its life-cycle with that particular emphasis on open access provision of research access provision.
[david:0063] Researcher 1: Yeah. And, and did you know, how would be, the workflow involve when using existing open qualitative research data sets on a secondary basis?
[david:0064] David: Because I have done it, I actually don't know. No, but again, I'd go, my first point of call would be [the] university library. I check on the website and then change and make an inquiry as [to] how to do it, because I like to do things, like, properly. And I don't just “Oh here, some data sets are great. Let's go”. It's, I want to make sure that I'm using them. you know, in the, in the right way, ethically, before I use them in any way. And obviously I'd have to, I mean I know part of the workflow would be approved, get the secondary data analysis approved on the ethics system here. But clearly, I need to know what dataset [I’m] working with first before I can fill in that. But that would come back to project planning of why I would need to look at qualitative data, open qualitative data, secondary data in the first place. so, I think, yeah, it would be just like Oh there's some datasets. Let's do some nice copy. Right. So yeah, it comes in, comes back to the answer to my last question, really. It's all about why data [in] the first place? But certainly, I think, that's, I mean, that's something that the DMP gets you to do as well is actually research data sets to say, so ESRC will say “Have a check for any datasets are existing on this research, because you might be saving some time, and we might, you know, might save some money as well”. So that would be a driver. But again, like, I've just submitted [an] application, as I, there was one dataset from 1976 that seems to be on the system, and it was interviews, and they would just really suck. Basically so, I've done like, a data review literature search sort of thing. But as a data. Yeah, I don’t go beyond that. No, I don't.
[david:0065] Researcher 1: No, that's, that's great. I think it's not very common yet, and so, perfect. So that was my my last question. My last question, and I will now, I will try to summarize some key points that you have made and well, well, you said that you were, well a champion of open research because you think it helps to encourage a collaboration and interdisciplinary research but you mentioned that within your data it's you have specific or or yeah particular issues in making out your visual data I open access and and you mentioned that the main barriers where are well the ethical barriers like to have respect for the participants rights of anonymity and and also You mentioned that another barriers is like a X, like having access to the people that are like the like keyholders of information around making quality, but I'm making a data open access. So it's, it, like, maybe it could be easier if this, well, if, if it was more straightforward knowing how to ask, who, yeah, who to ask these questions - and in enabling factors you said that well, yeah, funding could be a way, but that you mentioned that it is not great. As you think that if, like fostering that researchers make open data, like their data open access because of a funding requirement and then it would become like, another like, I don't know, task added to researchers. So it should come from a shift from well, from in the culture of qualitative research and maybe by having like a research data networks, in each department that champion making a qualitative data open access is a good practice, it would be a way to enable - or to foster these changes - and also, like, we need to increase awareness and more and provide more training on what is open access research and how it will look like in qualitative research. And also, well, you mentioned that in the data management plans are our key when planning, but to make your data open access because then you have to, well in this data, and it's in this plans, you have to like think about what type of data you're like a collecting and how you are going to make it, well, how would you make it accessible and, and to try to make it accessible as, as open as possible, as long as it is legal. And, and also like this encourages [you] to, to be more transparent. So you have to also show well to be transparent to your participants. So you have provided extensive information in your participant information, sheets and in the consent forms, and you even have pictures on how data is going to be handled. So, to try to ensure that participants know what they are consenting [to], when they are, if they consent to be there, that data is - it becomes open access. And this point I think it was, it was very interesting that you say that this like making data open access should be. It's, it's like, from the beginning of the research - is not a retrospective process. So you have to have that in mind and well you continue working with your participants to make sure they know, and any point of contact, you remind them of what they are consenting. So I thought I think that was like a really good practice and that's, that's generally my key thoughts
[david:0066] David: just for barriers and ethics as I'm not, I'm not saying I was like a negative comment. It's really important in research, and, but it, is it less of a barrier but it is absolutely paramount considered in that, when you’re thinking about open data, it is ethical as well. So, I guess it's just that kind of, researchers thought, research ethics and the whole population of that.
[david:0067] Researcher 1: Yes, I agree, I said it wrong. It is not like the ethics are the barrier, but ethics are the limit to make the data open. Do you have any questions or concerns about the project?
[david:0068] David: Yes. No further questions for me. Thank you. No, that's good.
[david:0069] Researcher 1: Are you still happy with the consent you gave at the beginning of the interview?
[david:0070] David: I am, yes.
[david:0071] Researcher 1: Would you prefer to be pseudonymised? Absolutely. Let's, let's go for pseudonymation, please.
[david:0072] Researcher 1: Would you like to be invited to the stakeholders workshop?
[david:0073] David: Yes, that sounds great. I'll be really interesting. Yeah.
[david:0074] Researcher 1: Perfect. Thank you. I'll stop recording now.
