[jim:0001] Researcher 1: And well, can you tell me a little bit about your field of research and what are your typical research methods you use for gathering data?
[jim:0002] Jim: Sure. Yeah. So I class myself as an environmental psychologist. So I work in the school of architecture,…
[jim:0003] Researcher 1: Okay.
[jim:0004] Jim: …but I try to understand the influence of the built environment on behavior and, and that sort of thing by particular research focus is around lighting and how that influences active travel, so how daylight? And darkness? And then different types of lighting, street, lighting that sort of thing, might influence walking and cycling, things like that. That's what my particular research focus. So, in terms of methods, I would say, I'm mainly a quantitative researcher so we use things like quantitative surveys. We might use observational methods so things like
[jim:0005] Jim: Counting different types of travel behavior, you know, sort of observation, and, and experiments as well. So maybe psychophysics experiments kind of trying to understand. For example, with it influence of lighting on things like perception of hazards and trip hazards and things like that, so yeah.
[jim:0006] Researcher 1: And you use any qualitative methods?
[jim:0007] Jim: Not very commonly so we do occasionally use interviews. So to give you an example, I've been involved in research which has been asking people The sorts of things that might make them feel safe or unsafe. To dark. And so, using brief interviews. And in, before my academic role, I worked for the local council as a researcher. So we used qualitative methods then as well, but that was quite a while ago.
[jim:0008] Researcher 1: Okay. And, and what are the typical tools or software you use for analyzing data?
[jim:0009] Jim: It's, I generally use R, so Excel and R are my main tools really for analyzing data, really, yeah.
[jim:0010] Researcher 1: Okay. And what is the analytical framework you use?
[jim:0011] Jim: In terms of what? What do you mean by that? Sorry.
[jim:0012] Researcher 1: Well, for analyzing your data, your analytical framework or theories you drawn for to frame your research.
[jim:0013] Jim: Um, [it] tends to be more, more sort of, a sort of test. So deductive methods, so kind of testing hypotheses, you know. So, making predictions and then testing those predictions through interrogation of the data. So it might be using statistical testing, for example, the null hypothesis statistical testing to sort of confirm or or not so hypotheses.
[jim:0014] Researcher 1: Okay. Perfect, thank you. And what would you say where it's your experience of working with qualitative data? I know it's not your usual but what is your experience with those qualitative methods?
[jim:0015] Jim: And so have some experience. So, you know, I have carried out interviews and carried out, focus groups and, but like, I say that it was probably a while ago since I've done that, that area of work. and but yes, it was unfamiliarity with Working with kind of yeah, interview and focus group data. So kind of a thematic analysis of, kind of respondents’ answers and stuff to questions.
[jim:0016] Jim: Yeah, but probably not, not a huge amount, really?
[jim:0017] Researcher 1: Mmm. And what do you feel? Like, in comparing qualitative versus quantitative methods? How do you feel about qualitative?
[jim:0018] Jim: Yeah, it's, I think that both methods can be used really powerfully in conjunction with each other. So, you know, one of the problems I have with using our quantitative methods, you know, it might be able to sort of prove or disprove certain hypotheses or predictions and It gives us numbers about things, but sometimes the The deeper, meaning underlying that data is missing, which is what I think you can get from qualitative. data, you know, so trying to actually quantitative data might describe a situation. And qualitative data might help in terms of actually trying to understand. That situation, you know, sort of, go into some of the explanations. So I'm a big believer that qualitative and quantitative can work really well together so that in tandem, not something in isolation.
[jim:0019] Researcher 1: Okay, so not so much in isolation, any of the methods.
[jim:0020] Jim: No but you know, having said that, I am a mainly quantitative researcher. So probably most of my methods are sort of quantitative, and we don't use a lot of qualitative, but, and that's not because we don't see value in the qualitative. It's kind of, just your’re limited sometimes with how much you can do, I suppose. And also what your own expertise is I suppose.
[jim:0021] Researcher 1: Yeah, thank you for that. And what is your opinion perception? And if you have practice of doing open research,
[jim:0022] Jim: Yeah, so I'm a really big fan and advocate of open research. So, I am currently co-lead for the Open Research Working Group at Sheffield. And so, in recent years, I've been trying to practise what I preach in terms of applying open research methods, so that might be things like making my data open. And so, one example would be a fairly recent journal publication, where we made all the data open. So any future research projects as well, I'll be trying to make the data is open as possible.
[jim:0023] Jim: Also things like pre-registration, if you've come across that as a concept so that's another sort of toolbox in our, in the open research, sorry. And all in the open research toolbox. so, recently submitted, it's called a registered report, so that's a like a pre-registration that goes through peer review? Submit that one, and
[jim:0024] Jim: Yeah. Well, it's really yeah and generally just trying to make all my publications open access. and if, if that can't be done through the journals that we submit to, then it will submit some sort of pre-print probably that makes it the. yeah, my research outputs openly available. So yeah, that's my general approach to open research.
[jim:0025] Researcher 1: Great. And, and what, what do you find valuable about open research? Why you are such an advocate for this?
[jim:0026] Jim: yeah, I think it makes you do better research because you have to become more transparent, you have to think through your research and your, your sort of research approach more rigorously, I think, and methodically In order to apply open methods, and yeah, and I think it just lends a great, a credibility to the work that you do and it, you know, it's open to sort of open research community is really sort of engaging community, so it's nice to be part of that as well. It feels like you are trying to move. the whole field of research and forward it to some extent because I feel like open research is something that is, Becoming more and more prevalent. So, it's important that we
[jim:0027] Jim: Stay on top of that, the sort of the growing trend in open research, I suppose.
[jim:0028] Researcher 1: Yeah, thank you for that. And what is your opinion about making qualitative data? Open access? Like in broadly and in terms of your own research
[jim:0029] Jim: Yeah, so broadly speaking, I think And it's about it's a valuable thing to do. However, I think there are big, like, challenges with qualitative making qualitative data open. That perhaps a so, I'm just going to ship my window because it's not
[jim:0030] Researcher 1: Yes, that's okay.
[jim:0031] Jim: Yeah, I think, I think the nature of qualitative data makes it slightly more challenging to make it open. You know, think, so quantitative data, you know, that might just be a spreadsheet of numbers for example, to, you know, put it simplistically I suppose and that is not too difficult to make code, you know, the challenges with that as well. But That's not too difficult. Whereas, if you've got, you know, for example, photographs, that might have people in them, there's issues around anonymity, and Data confidentiality. If you've got field notes, for example, It can be difficult to, you know, there's, there's more challenges in terms of making that into putting that into a format that can then be Openly shared and, you know, transcripts from interviews or focus groups.
[jim:0032] Jim: Sometimes it might be challenges in making those open because some of the things that might be said, in interviews of locust groups, might identify people or And that kind of thing. So yeah, I just feel like obviously it's a good thing to try to make. qualitative data as open as possible, but there are definitely Probably more challenges there in doing so than quantitative data, and from my own perspective…
[jim:0033] Researcher 1: Yeah.
[jim:0034] Jim: …I mean, I suppose, I must admit that I haven't first to say, yeah, I haven't ever made any qualitative data open because, well, mainly because the last of like qualitative research I did was quite a few years ago. So it was kind of before I really was aware about open research, I suppose so it didn't really do it then Yeah.
[jim:0035] Researcher 1: Okay. Thank you, and do you.
[jim:0036] Jim: Yeah, absolutely. So do you mean in terms of research outputs and…
[jim:0037] Researcher 1: Is.
[jim:0038] Jim: …not necessarily the data itself, but the outputs
[jim:0039] Researcher 1: And well in general, but including data.
[jim:0040] Jim: Completely, yeah, okay, so yeah, there are challenges. So one of the big, so from a, as I mentioned. So from a qualitative research perspective, I think that's definitely challenges there - in terms of things like ensuring anonymity of participants or data confidentiality, there's issues there. And which, probably more challenging for qualitative research than quantitative. Also, I think a massive challenge is the amount of time it takes to get your data into a suitable format that then makes sense to people, you know? So that when you do make it open, it is usable and so, you know that is that applies to both qualitative and quantitative data I would say but it's you know, it's just time consuming if you think.
[jim:0041] Jim: You have…
[jim:0042] Researcher 1: Yeah.
[jim:0043] Jim: Put your, put the data into a format that somebody else could understand and make sense. and also making sure that you're not going to be breaching any sort of Anonymity issues or complicated companies, reality issues as well. All that takes time, you know, that, which if you weren't gonna make your data open, you wouldn't have to do necessarily And you know it's my only being, you, that is - need to see the data and…
[jim:0044] Researcher 1: Yeah.
[jim:0045] Jim: …you know you understand your spreadsheet but That's all. That's all that matters. But if you're making it open, then you have to, you know, you need metadata with it, you need sort of
[jim:0046] Jim: You know, scripting files and stuff, that will explain the data and codebooks, that sort of thing.
[jim:0047] Researcher 1: Yeah.
[jim:0048] Jim: ..all of which takes a lot of time which you know, in a sort of time pressure environment, like, we are in university research and they're always on that time.
[jim:0049] Researcher 1: Yeah. Yes.
[jim:0050] Researcher 1: …and you have you perceived any enabling factors for making research and, well, and data open access.
[jim:0051] Jim: I guess, so a big enabling factor is the support that we have in the universities. I think Sheffield's doing a good job at the moment in terms of supporting the people to apply open methods and to make their open research open. So yeah, it might be like, support through the library and funding as well funding available to support open things like open access. And I know we have a lot of agreements with journals to make publications open access. So that will help, that all enables that supports making our research open. I think. I don't know if it's currently an enabler or, what would be an enabler is acknowledging open recent, like, open data and open research as a thing that is good to do, and acknowledging that I suppose through things like our, the way we, the way we review research, the way we access research, in the way we promote people, I suppose, you know, in terms of like Academic careers and promotion. and I think that would enable open research if it was acknowledged in kind of, you know, as a sort of criteria in promotion applications or job applications.
[jim:0052] Researcher 1: Yeah. Perfect, thank you. And Can you talk a little bit? You have mentioned this briefly, but can you expand a little bit on the IT on the ethics of, related to making your own? Well, qualitative, or in your case quantitative data open access in terms of protecting participants or gaining ethical approval.
[jim:0053] Jim: Yeah, of course. So the, clearly our issues in terms of, so, you know, a fundamental responsibility. We've got as a research, if you're dealing with data from human people that humans. Yeah. Participants, it's maintaining their anonymity and their confidentiality. Assuming that's you know, unless they've given X, you know, explicit content to be so de-anonymized, I suppose, but, so that that's a core responsibility of, you know, very important responsibility of any researcher. so, the, you know, if you're making your data openly available, There is always at risk, that such sort of anonymity and confidentiality will be breached unless you have unless the data is appropriately processed and kind of filtered so that you're not going to be able to identify people. and and sometimes that can be Easier said than done, you know, you might, for the best will in the world, you might think you've done enough to de..not like to, anonymize the data and things, but there might be certain information in there that somebody could could use to to eventually identify somebody a bit, so yeah, it is a bit of a minefield and as I mentioned before, like I think this is probably even more. So for qualitative data, where, and just the nature of that. Some of the, you know, what you might call data that's collected through qualitative, then I think the nature of it just makes it more challenging to ensure that anonymity of your participants. And I don't know, another sort of, like, ethical issue I suppose around open data is what the, what that data might subsequently be used for? As you, once you make your data open, you no longer have strict control over that I suppose. You know, so somebody might come and use your data for purposes that it wasn't intended for, and also whether your respondents, whether you're participants, would have agreed to that. You know - they might give consent to take part in the research that you're doing. But that might not necessarily mean they give consent to their data being used by other researchers for other purposes. So again, that's a bit of a ethical quandary, I suppose, with open data.
[jim:0054] Researcher 1: Yeah. Perfect. Thank you. And how likely that you make your own qualitative data open access and why
[jim:0055] Jim: Yeah. And for me going forward, I would always try to make my data open whether it's qualitative or quantitative. In some aspects. So, you know, and I don't know if it's the yeah, a good principle to follow is kind of ‘as open as possible, as close as necessary’. So there's obviously there might be, you know, instances where it's just not possible to make your data open, you know. you wouldn't be able to make it open without breaching confidentiality, you know, the confidentiality of participants and stuff. And however, I would always strive to make any future research data that I collect make it as open as possible. And because I believe that that for one demonstrates kind of transparency. Somebody can check my data and make sure my conclusions are appropriate, and also, if hopefully a useful resource for future research, as well, and I think it just adds a bit more rigour to what you do, because I know that I'm going to be sharing my data openly. If I know that in advance. It. So make sure it kind of like, Forces me almost to be absolutely sure in the data that I'm collecting. Because it's going to be potentially under scrutiny by other people a lot more than if it wasn't open data.
[jim:0056] Researcher 1: Yeah. Thanks. And in terms of the, your epistemic foundation, do you think this is the attention with making data open access in terms of particular talking about qualitative data?
[jim:0057] Jim: Um, potentially so. One, I guess, one of the reasons I don't know, one of the benefits I see of making your data open is that it allows other people to check, almost like, check your data, and like I said, so check what the conclusions that you've drawn from it - and whether they would come to the same conclusions, you know. It allows somebody to make sure that what you're saying is actually true based on the data you've collected. I think. That's okay, from a quantitative almost like objective, positivist paradigm. However, it might make slightly less sense from a more qualitative, sort of interpretivist approach, because [that] perhaps isn't that same sort of strive for objective reality? It's more, it would be more about, you know, the researchers interpretation of their data. And that, that kind of context and the researcher's own critical position, which I don't think would make as much sense, you know. So, I don't think somebody would necessarily always be able to come and look at somebody's qualitative data and so say, whether or not the researchers arguments are true or accurate or not, because the researcher themselves will bring a bit more of their own perspective, which is, it's hard to convey, I suppose through the data that you're might be publishing openly. And a lot of it can't you know, a lot of the important context that might be in that qualitative data might be, you might have to adapt that, you know. You might have to strip that out of the data before you can make it open, because it, otherwise it you know - leads to any confidentiality issues. And so a lot of that contextual information might then make it more difficult to interpret the qualitative data. So yeah, kind of renders it slightly less meaningful maybe to make the data as open, but then, that is not necessarily a reason not to do it.
[jim:0058] Researcher 1: And it's very interesting. Thank you for that. And how likely is, I think I already asked this, would you use qualitative data generated by others? Obviously, on an open access basis - as a secondary data set?
[jim:0059] Jim: Um, yes, I probably would if it was appropriate to whatever research I was doing. Yes, I would And I, like I said, I think that's one of the benefits of making your data open. Is it can be used by other researchers to It kind of makes, you know, the whole research. Machine a bit more efficient in a way. And because it might mean, you know, I don't have to go out and collect that data myself. Which you know, avoid wasting the time of participants as well as my own time.
[jim:0060] Researcher 1: Yeah. Thanks, and Do you have? Well you've mentioned a little bit about this, but did you have awareness of existing guidance on and resources for making qualitative data open access at the university and also broadly and
[jim:0061] Jim: And a little a little bit. Yeah, so at the university, I know the library has lots of resources around this so the whole FAIR thing. So, making your data responsible, accessible, interoperable, and reusable. Some of these principles, and so, I'm aware that the, for example, the library has produced two - there's checklists that are available for different departments - and which would help somebody to make their data open. Also from a sort of project I was involved in last year. where we were sort of, we brought together a series, a group of I suppose experts in qualitative research to discuss, open research issues. Based on that, I got a bit more of an understanding of the ways in which qualitative research might be shared openly, and yeah, and so, also things like there's also now, like guides and templates for example, for pre-registering qualitative research as well. So yeah, that, I'm aware of a few things. However, having said all that, I think my own perspective is, there's probably more, there's more support, more guidance available, so making quantitative data, open - rather qualitative - I think maybe that's an area that could, that probably could do with a bit more support and guidance around how do you go about making qualitative data open.
[jim:0062] Researcher 1: If thank you and what do you think is needed or would be useful for you to make your own research data and thinking more about qualitative data open?
[jim:0063] Jim: And yeah, I like like I said, so I think probably a bit more a bit more support a bit more guidance around how you actually do that. You know how might you go about making sure, for example, a series of interview transcripts, how do you ensure that they can be made open without breaching any issues around confidentiality, or you know, I mean, this isn't really my, this wouldn't be a subtle method I would generally use, but things like sort of field notes or, and so ethnographic notes - How you know, some practical guidance on how would you go about making those open?
[jim:0064] Jim: You know, these are like, just hundreds of notes. For example, are kind of just a series of notes collected in a series of different documents. Then how do you go about kind of, Like categorizing that, and putting it into a format that is useful, you know, because it's not just about dumping all of the Images of your notes onto the Web. It's like, how do you make that a useful resource? And so, and a resource that somebody else could navigate. I think guidance around that is, would be really useful. And also, I think, like, as I mentioned before, but all of this needs time, you know? It's, to make your data open takes time. Rather than if you would just keep on your own computer and not share it with anyone. That will be the easy thing to do, and the thing that would take less time. But you know, so there needs to be some sort of acknowledgment somewhere, that, if you're gonna start playing these methods that will take more time than if you didn't.
[jim:0065] Researcher 1: Yeah. Perfect. Thank you. And can you tell me a little bit about the workflow you follow when generating open research from planning the project to the data repository?
[jim:0066] Jim: Yeah, so I suppose the first first plans would be, so my ideal workflow would be to, you know, yeah, have the research idea and perhaps collect some sort of pilot data. Initially, you'll get some sort of initial pilot data that might help inform your full research design. And then I would ideally pre-register my research. And what that would do is make sure that I'm being very specific about the plans that I'm planning for the, yeah, the kind of the process that I'm planning to follow. And so have a pre-registration. Collect my data and analyze it based on the pre-registration. So the pre-registration would explain exactly how I was planning on analyzing it, how I would. Assess any particular research, question or hypothesis? And so, then the analysis will follow that pre-registration plan. and, and then, I would hopefully write that up. In an ideal world, the data would be collected and put into a format that was FAIR. Yeah, so the findable, accessible, interoperable…and uploaded along with any pre-print of the work. To somewhere like OSF. That's generally where I would put my open resources here. Yeah. Now, being submit for probably a journal paper or whatever research output I'm going for yeah.
[jim:0067] Researcher 1: Perfect. And you, have any idea, or have [you] done yourself, about the workflow involving using existing open research data sets on a secondary basis.
[jim:0068] Jim: All right. Okay yeah, so the workflow for using? Yes, I like data that's already out there.
[jim:0069] Researcher 1: Yeah.
[jim:0070] Jim: Yeah, to an extent. So actually I've been working on a, like a pre-registration for analyzing some existing secondary data, so it's kind of data that is, it's open data, but it's kind of like nationally available data, so it's about road traffic collisions.
[jim:0071] Researcher 1: Mmm.
[jim:0072] Jim: Yeah. so, For that. I'm trying to write a pre-registration again, but it's slightly more difficult because the data is already out there. So it's not, you're not having to collect it. So, it's more about explaining your own, how you have, how it works. You've actually seen the data, and explored it, and that kind of thing, and then you would be setting out exactly what you plan to do with that secondary data. So, you know, your analytical plans for analyzing it. Yeah, just some perhaps slightly more challenging because the data already exists. So, You're not.
[jim:0073] Researcher 1: Hmm.
[jim:0074] Jim: …well, I guess you're not having to explain  how you would collect that data, you’re now having to explain what you would do with the data.
[jim:0075] Researcher 1: That's interesting. Perfect. Well that was my last question and I'm just going to summarize a few points that I haven't top of my mind, for you to confirm. And so you say that, that you are an advocate of open research and you're trying to make your research as open as possible, and because it, well, you, you find it valuable. Because if it, in a way, it forces you to make, to do better research, to be more transparent, to increase their - regarding your research and increase the credibility of your work. And also the open research communities, very engaging and this is also becoming more prevalent in in academia in academia and you also think that a making qualitative research open access is also valuable but it has different challenges because you work with people and so, it is important that to avoid breaching anonymity and and confidentiality. And also some challenges in regards, making field notes, and ethnographic and notes into formats that are shareable and, and follow the FAIR principles. So it just, you said that it is, it's a good thing, but challenging about the, in regards of the challenges of - apart from ensuring anonymity and that the confidentiality, it's also if this very time consuming and it's, this is for both quantitative and qualitative data sets, and put data in suitable formats that are usable and shareable, and make sense to other researchers. And also, you have, you need more time to explain how the research process was about, so it is highly time-consuming, and this seems to be a little bit incompatible with the time pressures that academic institutions put on researchers as enabling factors. You mentioned that there is growing support at the university, and that there are many resources that the library has made available about open research and FAIR principles. There's also more funding available to make open, to make research open access, and there's agreements with journals to to make more publications, open access. But you mentioned that it will be very important to also, um, the acknowledgment of open research and that this was considered as a factor for academic progression. And so yeah in terms of ethics, you said that it’s a fundamental responsibility of the researchers, of protecting their participants and ensuring anonymity and confidentiality, and [to] process that data correctly to avoid identification and that risk to participants, so, but in, for qualitative data this is more challenging. Yeah. Because, and also like another problem is that you don't, when you put your data - or you make it open - you don't have, like. um, much control about how data would be used. And also like, well, and also like the, you just have to ensure if the participants would agree to that. So, but they might not consent that - of the data being shared. And you mentioned that, yes, you would, like, pursue making your qualitative data open, but at least in some extent, but you will follow the principle that's ‘as open as possible and enclosed as as necessary’, but you find it valuable because it also increases transparency, and as rigour, and how qualitative data is produced and, in terms of epistemics, you find a little bit of potential tension. Um, in regards of interpret[ing] the research, because, well, findings in qualitative research are bound to the researchers’ interpretation and their knowledge on the constant context of the research, and the, and their own positionality. And this would be maybe difficult to convey to other researchers and also to protect participants and you may need to, we may need to read that a extra information from the data sets for. So this data would lose, would lose some of this richness, or it wouldn't be possible for other researchers to evaluate the same, or see the same context and information. And so, and you think that yeah you would use other data as a secondary data set and that you're using it because it allows you to be more efficient and reduce avoid losing time your time and the participants time by, by using data that's already there collected. So, well, these are the main key points. I gather, I don't know if it this way.
[jim:0076] Jim: Yeah. Some fun.
[jim:0077] Researcher 1: Yeah. Thank you so much.
[jim:0078] Jim: Brilliant summary. I couldn't have said it better myself. Yeah.
[jim:0079] Researcher 1: And you have any questions or concerns?
[jim:0080] Jim: No, I guess. So one thing I didn't, one thing that, and I got to mention as well, with maybe - it's maybe it's more of a wider than research environment question, but, or issue. So one slight concern I have with open, so the move towards open research, generally I think, it's a really good thing. This move towards open research, but when we talk about, like, qualitative and quantitative data, I have a slight concern that the move towards open research could, if we're not careful, it could be prejudicial against qualitative researchers. Because of like, I've tried, like, I've suggested, I think there may be greater difficulties and challenges in applying open research methods. So that's not just about open data, but some of the other pillars of open research, you know, in terms of like yeah, open access things about transparency of methods, pre-registrations, reproducibility. So, you know, all these sorts of issues that [are] talked about with open research for quantitative methods. But they are probably more challenging, and less appropriate sometimes, for qualitative research. And so, I have a slight concern that this move towards open research, generally across all different disciplines, if we're not careful, it could, it could be prejudicial against qualitative research, because if we're expecting all research to be made open, and as I said, if it's more difficult for qualitative researchers to make their data open, then that puts them in a more difficult position, you know. And Yeah, do just one, something I wanted to mention.
[jim:0081] Researcher 1: Highlight. Yeah, that is a very important point. Thank you, thank you for mentioning it. Well, I have finished, and I will send you the edited transcription of the interview and…
[jim:0082] Jim: Yeah.
[jim:0083] Researcher 1: …for you, for your approval and review, and we will also have a Stakeholders workshop in July. And I will say, I don't know if you would like to be invited to this, it would be here at Sheffield and and I can send you the details.
[jim:0084] Jim: Yeah, please. Yeah, if I can. If you're happy for me to attend, and if I'm available, then yeah, I'd like to go.
[jim:0085] Researcher 1: Perfect, I'll send you the information. Well, you still need to send me the consent form, but I would like to ask you…
[jim:0086] Jim: Yes.
[jim:0087] Researcher 1: if you would prefer to be so pseudonymised or directly named in the outputs.
[jim:0088] Jim: You can name me. Yeah, that's fine. You can directly name me. That's, that's fine. Yeah.
[jim:0089] Researcher 1: Okay, perfect. Well yeah.
[jim:0090] Jim: I'm going to ask you actually. So obviously, I know you're working on this project. What, what else are you doing? Like, what? What's you do? You have another role at Sheffield?
[jim:0091] Researcher 1: And just let me stop the recording, is that okay?
[jim:0092] Jim: Yeah.
[jim:0093] Researcher 1: Stopped recording. Perfect.
