[michelle:0001] Researcher 1: So, well, I'll start with the questions. Can you tell me a little bit about your field of research and the typical research methods you use for gathering data and analyzing data?
[michelle:0002] Michelle: Okay, so and the field I'm working in is criminal justice. So currently I've done research in the past with criminal justice practitioners in the third sector. So they've been commissioned to provide criminal justice based activities, and then currently working with the statutory body, focusing on literacy needs.
[michelle:0003] Researcher 1: Okay. And what are your typical research methods to collect that?
[michelle:0004] Michelle: I'm sorry, what's the second part of that question? Yes. So qualitative, and so document analysis. Interviews and focus group interviews.
[michelle:0005] Researcher 1: …and what tools or software you used to analyze [the] data,
[michelle:0006] Michelle: And NVivo.
[michelle:0007] Researcher 1: Okay, perfect. And what, what is your analytical framework or the theories you use in your research?
[michelle:0008] Michelle: Yes, so and I've been recently being used in the reflexive thematic analysis, through Brown and Clark.
[michelle:0009] Researcher 1: Okay. And, well, you say you've only mentioned qualitative data, did you do, do you/did you do other type quantitative research as well or okay?
[michelle:0010] Michelle: No.
[michelle:0011] Researcher 1: What is your experience of working with qualitative data?
[michelle:0012] Michelle: Eh?
[michelle:0013] Researcher 1: Like, now you're doing the PhD, but did you have experience before this?
[michelle:0014] Michelle: So at Masters level, that's where I carried out research, with the first sector organization who was and yeah, carrying out criminal justice and service delivery.
[michelle:0015] Researcher 1: Okay. and what is your experience with qualitative data? Is it…
[michelle:0016] Michelle: We've got sorry!
[michelle:0017] Researcher 1: …and with using qualitative data in your field, what is your experience? You find it difficult?
[michelle:0018] Michelle: Oh, analyzing the qualitative data.
[michelle:0019] Researcher 1: Yeah.
[michelle:0020] Michelle: Yeah. No.
[michelle:0021] Researcher 1: And why do you prefer qualitative data?
[michelle:0022] Michelle: Um, I think it's, I mean, yeah, in terms of quantitative data, it wasn't that I was adverse to using it. I've struggled finding the data for it, and struggle, and yeah coming to it. So it's not that I'm adverse to it, it's, I think it would be really beneficial. It's just that I'm really, the gatekeepers are, yeah, it's difficult to find access to it, and so why I enjoy qualitative data, it's just so insightful. You've got that depth of richness to the data that can tell so much more than numbers can.
[michelle:0023] Researcher 1: Okay, perfect, and what are your perceptions and opinions of open research in general.
[michelle:0024] Michelle: I can't say that I've ever benefited from it, so I don't think I've got some experiences that and in terms of my own data, yeah, I think I am a bit cautious about…
[michelle:0025] Researcher 1: ...of making your own data available.
[michelle:0026] Michelle: Yeah, I think it's, it's about. [how] to feel about that, somebody else using it. Interacting with them in a different time and space. And I think there's some ethical considerations that need to be considered, and also the barriers in the moment in the current time, about - so for example - somebody may really want to interact with my research, but on the consent form it says that you know the data is going to be uploaded to the UK Data service, and therefore that prohibits them from participating in it. So there's kind of like, there's a here-and-now barrier, but also about, yeah, I think in terms of that consideration for the participant and their relationship. Which is bizarre really, to think about it.
[michelle:0027] Researcher 1: Yes, I found that very interesting that you mentioned about, like, I mean, the ethical barriers and also like the timing barriers and that someone else uses that data. So in your field, or at least in your own research, and you find these ethical barriers - but, and like talking about in general - what do you think, or what is your opinion really regarding making qualitative data open access? Do you think it is feasible? You know if there is a type of research or themes.
[michelle:0028] Michelle: I think he's got to be doing sensitively and I think he's got to be careful because it doesn't matter how much metadata that you put with qualitative data you're not there. Oh, if you were to access it at a later that time and then at the Said. No amount better data can provide the context for when it was collected. So if you think about organization that has gone through a huge amount of change and Then that data set was revisited. Say 10 years later. It would be very difficult for a researcher to pick that up and then understand that context I think about what was taking place. I mean I suppose it depends what you want to do with the data.
[michelle:0029] Researcher 1: Yeah. We found that. and I'm very interested on that point…That metadata is not might not be enough to give enough context of the time and…
[michelle:0030] Michelle: Why? With, yeah,…
[michelle:0031] Researcher 1: ….culture of when the data collection occurred.
[michelle:0032] Michelle: …and I just did this enough kind of like stipulation on it, it's all kind of like what the participant demographics really isn't. It doesn't give that ‘why’, to [the] context ‘of’? Well, this was the political landscape, this was the funding, [this] was what was happening in the organization at this time in this space. Therefore, you can't just take what they say in isolation or out of context, which is the whole point of quality to research in the first place, and it's not a number. It's not. And detaching it from, yeah, the context in which you're you're operating in, so, and I don't know if it's compatible with qualitative data….
[michelle:0033] Researcher 1: Mmm. So
[michelle:0034] Michelle: Yeah, …to call it research. Maybe. It depends, what your positionality [is] really, doesn't it? But…
[michelle:0035] Researcher 1: yeah, but you think, like, in general, maybe open access and qualitative data is not compatible.
[michelle:0036] Michelle: … might not be, it might not be yeah. Because knowledge is tied to the social worlds in which it was operating in - at that time, and in that space. And therefore, I mean again, it depends on what research was going to come in five, ten, fifteen, two years, two months time after it was published. That, you know, in terms of longitudinal research perhaps. But again, there's that, that real caveat that it's not comparable because it's taken out of context, so…
[michelle:0037] Researcher 1: Yes. What are your, well, what did you? Well, besides, well, you have mentioned some of the barriers you consider about making qualitative data,…
[michelle:0038] Michelle: But if…
[michelle:0039] Researcher 1: ….but do you find or have you thought about other perceived barriers or challenges or or enabling factors that would help making qualitative data open access?
[michelle:0040] Michelle: I suppose that when you carry out research, it's kind of a production isn't it - with your participants. It's you and then working together to provide an insight into something. And I guess, when, you give away that, when in the nicest possible way, you know, you upload it to [the] UK data service or you put it in a repository, that story, that knowledge that you created together. It's gone. I don't know how that sits ethically. Because you've done that yourself with the participant, you've done that together. And that's your story that you've created, and that's your voice that you've done together. And therefore to relinquish that to the elves. And yeah, I'm not sure. How? How ethical that is. Regardless of all the official stuff that you go through about getting called centers, stuff like that. It's actually, what does that mean in, to somebody personal - researcher and the participant to know that somebody else will pick this up and put their own lens on it without knowing the circumstances in what it was created.
[michelle:0041] Researcher 1: Yeah. So I know, I mean when you're saying like, if you upload your data to another repository - is like this knowledge is gone, like why do you think it loses the value? Or…
[michelle:0042] Michelle: No, no. I'm not saying the knowledge is…. [I’m] saying that partnership, that was part of the process of carrying out [the] research. That's been extinguished, hasn't it? And it's not just the researcher, who's extracted that information. It's, it’s ‘of together’, you've created that knowledge through that research process.
[michelle:0043] Researcher 1: Yeah.
[michelle:0044] Michelle: And yeah, I don't know ethically where that stands with me, anyway about how that?
[michelle:0045] Researcher 1: Yeah. And would you mention that in co-production of knowledge with the participants, you're doing participatory research too?
[michelle:0046] Michelle: No. I mean, co-production in the way that, and you know, that you produce knowledge. So the fact that yeah, not as a research that just expression of, it's a, yeah,a way that you carry out your research together.
[michelle:0047] Researcher 1: Okay, thanks for clarifying that, and do you think there is any factor that would be enabling, making qualitative research, open?
[michelle:0048] Michelle: But I think, qualitative, and I don't think it's a massive Issue. Technically, you know, I think you can upload transcripts to wherever, and the relations in funding agreements and so on and so forth. So I think technically, I don't think there's many barriers ethically. Your own positionality, you feel comfortable doing that? Are there any enablers to do that? I don't know. I suppose that we, I suppose that depends on what are the conditions of you being allowed access to that information or what you do with it? And also,…
[michelle:0049] Researcher 1: Mm-hmm.
[michelle:0050] Michelle: I think perhaps if you can see benefits, so proud to have had a good experience of using that data, then I would think differently about this I suppose. So you know perhaps, and I think it needs handling with care. I think it should be really respectful. And to recognize that somebody, a participant, has been really open and honest, and given up their time and whatever - the end product of that, that should be treated respectfully, and with care.
[michelle:0051] Researcher 1: Yeah, no, I definitely agree with that. Well, you've mentioned a little bit about your view on well, on the ethics of making your own qualitative data, open access and, but can you expand a little bit about, like, your experience with the ethics when you're doing at your own qualitative data in terms of well? And if you were thinking about making it open access, like, in terms of protective participants are not gaining at ethical approval. Like what? What's your view on that?
[michelle:0052] Michelle: So, just could you clarify about gaining ethical approval? Is that like what you're thinking about?
[michelle:0053] Researcher 1: Yes. Like how would you go about a like, if in, I mean in the thought of making a lot, maybe not the transcriptions when maybe you could do open qualitative research by sharing your questionnaire or you know, limiting it. But how would you go about, in terms of well, everything in ethical approval. What do you think are like? What is your experience about that?
[michelle:0054] Michelle: Yeah, I think I think. I think as a technicality, I don't think it's that difficult to do in terms of, you know, you need to make sure that your participants are fully informed and that the consent to it and the clear about potential for the use of that information and so, I think this kind of, like, the institutional ethics. And then there's kind of like the everyday, and I suppose the problem would be - is if some just came and said “well how would it be used?” You know, where what do you think this is going to look like, I am “don't know” - you can't, you can't anticipate that kind of thing.
[michelle:0055] Researcher 1: Of course.
[michelle:0056] Michelle: and I think there's something different is that they're about, you just asked about, and was it like the interview schedule? You said - was something like that? Yeah, I think that's different. and that's a completely, I think this - this obviously - learn you can do there, aAnd that should be available and we should all be helping each other on that kind of thing and - but when it's a participant’s personal experience then. Yeah. I think, I think that's different.
[michelle:0057] Researcher 1: Yes. So you're, just be clear, and like your not reluctant, but then yeah, the challenge for you in considering making your own data open access would be that you won't be able to provide answers to participants of how these data might be used later in time if someone accesses it?
[michelle:0058] Michelle: Yeah, I think that was, I supposed, a challenge. I think my bigger problem that, that knowledge is context balance. It was created at that moment in time, with that person, in that situation. And so, somebody picks it up and assumes that's the reality. That's, that was socially influenced as some depictions of even, now we could, we could get a transcript and with my own position and your position, we would interpret that differently.
[michelle:0059] Researcher 1: Yes.
[michelle:0060] Michelle: So, and also, I was thinking what you were just saying, that I don't think there's enough information about it. I don't think there's enough. You know, it's not what we got trained on. It's not included in a lot of the information that they have, it's just kind of like new. I think it's me.
[michelle:0061] Researcher 1: Yes. Yes. And yes it, yeah. Well I didn't learn about it until the end of my PhD. So, by that time, I already had gained consent from my participants, and I never said that I would share transcriptions. I always said that I would like, I would be the only one that I would hear the interviews and like, So, I understand like your concerns of making qualitative data open because it's something I share also, and so,
[michelle:0062] Michelle: I want to, you see the benefit?
[michelle:0063] Researcher 1: And but I also I mean now that I've been working a little bit on this team and qualitative data, and also like applying like the FAIR principles, you know to make your data accessible, and I think, well, I would really like to know what other a different researcher my conclude with that information and because I also received like very valuable information from my participants it would be, I found that it would be not terrible, but it like all these rich data that I have is going to be limited what I do with it only, and if I could share it, maybe there would be some other people that could bring all the insights on the topic and that they might like, say it's not comparable because it's qualitative. But that might come with different conclusions or might be able to use it somehow because I found it very rich. There are a lot of topics - I talked with my participants and I limited that information to like what my thesis was about. And so I think that that is my interest - in making qualitative that is reusable, because at the end, it was - it is expensive to produce data. I mean, it's, I mean I got funding from the home. It's not like I paid it for myself, but like, oh, that's - this has that, also the financial value and also the value of the knowledge that I like I collected. So I find it like that, it would be maybe, it could be richer and reach other other research, I mean it might be like - go beyond my scope of action and so that's I mean like…
[michelle:0064] Michelle: Yeah.
[michelle:0065] Researcher 1: …what I would be interested in, but I understand your concerns about like and That is context bound and also but like, specific to the time, so will be difficult to control. But yes, and well, let's talk a little bit about your epistemic foundation and how this is like, affecting your like - or influencing - your position and of making qualitative data open.
[michelle:0066] Michelle: So, sorry, I think I've probably covered it. Yeah, that a participant’s perspective or position, it just can't be separated from the context.
[michelle:0067] Researcher 1: Mm-hmm.
[michelle:0068] Michelle: So we've really got to understand where that person lives or works, or you know, studies or whatever it is, because it's really specific to that time and placeI think.
[michelle:0069] Researcher 1: Okay, thank you for that, and well, I'm - you've discussed this a lot but I will make them,  I will ask you anyway. How likely is it that you [would] make your own qualitative open access and why or why not?
[michelle:0070] Michelle: So I think that depends on the participant. I think whether you're getting consent for it, first of all, most yeah. And maybe there's - I'm doing a disservice actually to the participants - but for like, what you've just said, in terms of your own research, maybe they do want their voice to be heard in years to come. And yeah, and I fully understood - and that they have lots of things to say and they want it to be said and heard, not just in my research but you know, in different arenas as well. So I think probably consent in terms of the technical side of it - whether it's physically and legally possible to do it, and then also in terms of yeah, the participant’s wider perspective on how it should be used as well. And I think as well, maybe. I don't know - has it come from the idea, from like a quant space thing, you know where. And it seems better. Seems the right way to do it. I don't know if that's where you think that it's arisen, from whether that's something that we're comfortable with as researchers as well. Do that?
[michelle:0071] Researcher 1: It's seen as a quality marker when it's not necessarily? Yeah, you said it is a great area, a little bit, I think.
[michelle:0072] Michelle: Suppress. We do need a little bit more. I don't know. Maybe stuff like this, you know, like discussions and examples and learning that that's what we need to to progressive forward.
[michelle:0073] Researcher 1: Yeah. I think yeah, more information is needed. And, about thinking about using other people’s qualitative data. Would you consider that? like, if you find Yeah.
[michelle:0074] Michelle: Using other people's data.
[michelle:0075] Michelle: I think it's really project dependent, isn't it? and I suppose, we kind of, so for example, I'm thinking about my research and when I look at the research product project, The one that's most similar to mine was conducted back in 1997. it's almost, you know, the organisation that I'm looking at has changed so drastically. I'm just wondering whether it [will] be valuable or not saying that, and I think these things go in cycles, so I think you can probably spot patterns that within, you know, [your] own organisation that still do happen over a long period of time. So think of a project-specific, I think it'd be really interesting, but I think I could use, I'd like some guidance - other than just like really basic metadata, just have that really rich kind of setting about - this is what happened with it. It took place, and these were the circumstances. So, and yeah, I think with care and with respect, then this possibly [is] a place or…
[michelle:0076] Researcher 1: Yeah, it's yeah. I like I like your approach. So maybe like if you could add like the contact, the researcher, that collected, the data, like you might be prone to use this data.
[michelle:0077] Michelle: Yeah, and Yeah, yeah I suppose how long we're thinking of it, those? So for example, if it was longitudinal research that researcher may have retired or something, but maybe you know, about how to use the data about that, you know, that we're doing cool video, it was a time of austerity or it wasn't just one thing. It was like, actually people will face with seven things that were under resourced, they were understaffed, they had multiple things going on at one time because it's really hard, you know, you because sometimes see, you see it all the time on serious case reviews. So, things like that in the news, easy, how could somebody have missed that? But when you think that they were, so staff, they [were] working with, you know - potentially problematic tools and things like that there [for] the newly trained - and it's, it then becomes more understandable, whether they did that decision in that place. So yeah not necessarily physical conversation, but just some rich data, some rich data, some rich contexts that goes with it. Yeah.
[michelle:0078] Researcher 1: Yes, yes, some more context. Okay? And you have any awareness or or know about any existing guidance or resources to make qualitative data open access. It can be like at in the university or I like and I know there areas and…
[michelle:0079] Michelle: So if I, yeah, I'd probably contact that. I don't really know the right places. But so, for example, the people who support you is likely data management plans, I think it is a library services, they are just absolutely fantastic. So, if I had any queries that is the first place to go and then the UK Data Service as well, I think is probably somewhere - and possibly the White Rose DTP if that's struggling to find somewhere.
[michelle:0080] Researcher 1: Yeah, and Have you ever used any of these resources?
[michelle:0081] Michelle: So, I've used a lot. I think it is a library resource. I can't just remember now, for help on my data management plan, and they were absolutely brilliant.
[michelle:0082] Researcher 1: Yes.
[michelle:0083] Michelle: So helpful and so insightful. Is great to have all those expertise involving your work. Yeah.
[michelle:0084] Researcher 1: Yes. And well did they talk to you about making your data open access? Or it was just to create your data management plan?
[michelle:0085] Michelle: So as part of the data management there is a section about making your data open access. Trying to think, I think and that's the UK Data Service as well. So I think it pointed you in the direction of ‘Read those’ - resources to read and things like that. And then when they're reviewing it, they give you any comments, I think, about how that needed to be strengthened or…
[michelle:0086] Researcher 1: Okay, perfect. And what would you think, it would? You would need to or be useful for for you to make your own research, your own research data open access
[michelle:0087] Michelle: Do I think it'd be useful?
[michelle:0088] Researcher 1: Yeah, I mean, and no but…
[michelle:0089] Michelle: Oh, to do it and…
[michelle:0090] Researcher 1: What resources would be useful for you to do it?
[michelle:0091] Michelle: So, Yeah, I think. I think definitely some training. But that's not kind of like what's business with physical stuff about how to physically do it, how to upload it, where to upload it. And what format, what metadata do you need to accompany? And so on and so forth. And then, so this kind of like the real procedural stuff. But then, I think this kind of lodge of knowledge sharing about and yeah. How that can be done, sensitive learning, and with care - and how that looks like and and I think as well for you to have some choice about how you want that to look, so great not to be such a set format. We've got to put it, upload it on, a spreadsheet or something. With “look, read me”. The first page, this is what it was like in 2022 with 10 years of austerity, and covid. And yeah, I think a little bit of flexibility would be nice in the process.
[michelle:0092] Researcher 1: Mmm. Yeah, that is a good point.
[michelle:0093] Michelle: …and maybe and something with this is still, you know, because your research never covers everything like you said, and maybe for the next research, he hears the bats and this is what, you know, it might be nice to look at next, but there's still some more work to do on this, which I couldn't go through my PhD, so go for it.
[michelle:0094] Researcher 1: Yes. Yeah. I think I come, do publish a lot of different papers with the data that I gather, like in different fields. Maybe, and, but yeah how did you go about generating open qualitative research? Well, have you had any experience of trying to make some part of your data open access?
[michelle:0095] Michelle: Not yet. I'm just still in the second phase. I'm still collecting data. Yeah.
[michelle:0096] Researcher 1: Okay. And, and do you have any idea of how this process of open - of making your data open access - is like from the planning to the project to the data repository.
[michelle:0097] Michelle: So, I think it's It's the data management plan captures a lot of that. And so, for example, for thinking, right about it, when you start creating your day to management plan, and then thinking how it impacts on your information, sheets that you give to your participants so that they've got knowledge about what [will be] useful in the future. And then in your consent forms within that to be. Yeah, for them to give the concept for it to be used later on.
[michelle:0098] Researcher 1: Okay, perfect. And, and did you have any understanding of, how would it be to use open qualitative research datasets as a secondary basis?
[michelle:0099] Michelle: …And so I know that the UK Data Service has three levels of access, and I've never - I presume it's not available through open access, and so it said I think restricted or sensitive there's two, it's the two higher levels in it. I think you work with the UK Data Service to categorize it, which level then, that, you feel that it should be based at. I suppose that's a word for all researchers isn't it really, cushion that? And I think you possibly feel more comfortable with it if you could have that conversation with a real person to say, Okay, you might not find this sensitive, but actually, that's because you don't understand the context of it - it is sensitive because of x, y, and z. Therefore, I feel that it should be safeguarded by having this protected, you know, restricted or safeguarded and category attached to it rather than. I suppose, I feel at the moment, we're just kind of like a little machines and it gets sent off into the ether, pick it up, and then, and that might be misguided because I'm not at that stage yet, and - but I suppose that's how knowing that it's not understood.
[michelle:0100] Researcher 1: Yeah. Yes, it seems like this type of guidance to make the data qualitative, qualitative data data open access are a bit abstract still, so not really operationalized.
[michelle:0101] Michelle: Yes, yes. Yeah. Yeah. And I suppose it's just recognizing that and perhaps we can't replicate what you do with quantitative. That this is different and that's okay, and it might need a different process. It might not just be that, you know, you upload a Word document and then that's fine. And it might be that it needs a little bit more information to go with it, needs a conversation with [The] UK data service to say ‘And this is how, what I feel, that I think it should be, and categorized as, please can we have a conversation about it?” And then, yeah...And some of those fears may be laid actually, just by understanding the process a little bit more, I don't understand what it requires to gain access to those different levels and, yeah, it's not [being] precious about your data and not wanting to share it.
[michelle:0102] Researcher 1: I like that phrase.
[michelle:0103] Michelle: It's about sharing it responsibly.
[michelle:0104] Researcher 1: Sharing it responsibly perfect. Well, that's what - the questions I have for you today. I will really briefly summarize…
[michelle:0105] Michelle: Great. Thank you.
[michelle:0106] Researcher 1: …some of the information you gave me. So, you know, your qualitative data is a, well you use documents, interviews, and focus groups. You do reflective thematic analysis and you really, you haven't had any, well, you haven't received any benefits from open research, and your main concerns in making your own data open access as a respect for participants. Now, because knowledge is co-created with them, and is context bound, and it's also dependable on the time and culture, and by not having, like, a clear possibility of explaining all the context surrounding the data, that is shaped it. Is it like, that's your concern? When making it open access? You mentioned like, this like, some of the barriers and challenges to make up the nexus is this? Well that the information is well the data is, is bound to the specific time and place and culture, but it's also like the ethics which are procedures. But I mean, there - that can be overcome but it's also like a little bit of a challenge or barrier doing consent with participants, and and also the lack of information available of on what is open access, and qualitative open,  making it if that open and well - as enabling factors, it could be that, well, if like having, maybe, it's some positionalities are more flexible. So it would, it is also dependent on the researcher and if we gain consent as well, and if the participant gives consent to share the data, and it could, it could be done as long as it's done with care and respect. And yeah, and well, like you said, like you would consider making qualitative data in data open access but it's and on the participants approval and also like, if it's legal. Also, like having more guidance on and also like, making the process more flexible. So that they like they ‘Read me’ text, and also the, well, they're with me file and metadata could also have space for, like, enriching these with the context of the space where this data was generated. And you mentioned very important resources about making and qualitative, well data open access like that data management team at the library from the library services and the [UK Data] service. But yeah you well you mentioned several times that it can be done as long as it is with care and respect for the participant and…
[michelle:0107] Michelle: Yeah. Yeah. You did a great job. This amazing skills, I suppose just us talking about it. The other thing was that I've taken a lot of care in my research to make it a non-judgmental framework. So, it was kind of like what I was saying before. I'd hate somebody to pick it up in five years time and say, Well, that practitioner didn't do that and that's And I suppose there's room for misinterpretation with quality to work. And and so, yeah, I think that's where it is. It's the care that we need to think about how to minimize that. Really. And that's not to say that somebody can't have a different point of view because I think that'd be  really interesting, like you said, with your work that somebody to have a respective on it. It's the fact that, yeah. Not to be taken out of its context and judge for that - because that would be, I think that it'd be the worst thing that we could do for our participants. It's a real disservice to them. I think. Yeah.
[michelle:0108] Researcher 1: Yeah.
[michelle:0109] Michelle: Yeah, it [would] feel awful.
[michelle:0110] Researcher 1: Yes, yes, no. I agree. And if you have any questions or concerns? I would.
[michelle:0111] Michelle: Yeah, that's good.
[michelle:0112] Researcher 1: Okay. Perfect. And well, like I said, this project will end up around July and we will have a stakeholder’s workshop, which if you are interested to participate, I can send you the details once we have them finalized.
[michelle:0113] Michelle: Sure, I can participate online, in-person to be more difficult. So it just depends on the form of income.
[michelle:0114] Researcher 1: Okay. Okay, perfect. Online will be far preferable for you.
[michelle:0115] Michelle: Yes, please. Yeah. But I understand they might not be for everyone, so that's okay.
[michelle:0116] Researcher 1: Yes. Well, once we have the details, I'll share them with you. And so you can let me know…
[michelle:0117] Michelle: So yeah.
[michelle:0118] Researcher 1: if  you can make it to the workshop, and you [are] happy with the consent. You gave me at the start of the interview? Perfect and…
[michelle:0119] Michelle: Yeah.
[michelle:0120] Researcher 1: …you want to be, would you prefer to be said only mind or you want to be directly named in the outputs?
[michelle:0121] Michelle: I'll be seated. Yeah yes. Pseudonym please. Thank you.
[michelle:0122] Researcher 1: But yes. And well I already talked to you about this decoder workshop. So that's, it from my side.
[michelle:0123] Michelle: Here. It's great.
[michelle:0124] Researcher 1: Thank you very much Michelle, for giving your time.
[michelle:0125] Michelle: No, you’re more than welcome. Good luck with your research. It's really important and exciting too
[michelle:0126] Researcher 1: Thank you very much. I appreciate the comments, well, I'll leave it [there].
[michelle:0127] Michelle: Thank you, take? Yeah,… have a good day. Bye.
[michelle:0128] Researcher 1: You too, bye.
