[stephen:0001] Researcher 1: Yes, we're ready to go. So thank you very much for accepting and I would like to start by asking you to expand a little bit on your, on your field of research. And what are the typical research methods you use for gathering data?
[stephen:0002] Stephen: Yeah. My field, over the last 40 odd years, I started over 50 years ago. I started off doing analytical-economic based research with equations, and then some, um, quantitative types of research, about 10 years before I moved into qualitative research. Particular, specifically, case studies in the 1980s. So I've been doing that ever since, and that's been my primary field, and so what I'm interested in, and what I started off with in that period, way back in 1980s, in what is management accounting - that is, as a professional field as well as a practice. And as academics, which started off and when I started telling the practitioners what to do based on our economic models, you know, a very arrogant position and then we realized, the practitioners were doing what we said - was the optimal thing to do. And so that started. And in my, and the number of people in my field and a training of researchers, trying to understand the nature of management accounting practice. What is it? How is management accounting [a] practice? Now, I should refer to the nature of management accounting, but it, in the field of accounting it's often divided into two areas; one of which is the financial reporting, which is the the annual accounts responses and the figures that are cited on the radio or TV that sell, and so it made so much money and so on. And that information is passed to investors and the stock market and so on. But management accounting is concerned with the accounting inside an organization, which is used in the process of managing the organization. And it's got other terms being used, and I think the most disruptive, although it's not used at the professional, as a profession, is for performance management. Using information to manage performance of organizations. And so, that's where, what it’s really focused on. So I started off trying to understand the nature of the practices, and at a time when there was quite a lot of change in British industry and things were changing quite rapidly. They're under the, probably [19]60s and [19]70s British industry, was a leader internationally and they were coming under increasing pressure from Asian countries, and Japan in particular at that time, and that was changing the nature of British, under a lot of pressure and that started to change a number of systems, and also computers were coming in and so on. And so there's other changes going on. And so I started by focusing on the nature of change. And how management accounting changed,  and that's developed into work around the resistance to change, and how new systems can be introduced. More recently, the introduction of newer technologies, and so it's an ongoing thing, because it's always changing. So it's a good field to be in, because you keep having new areas to look on it, and so that's been primarily what I've done. And in my early days, when I came from an economic perspective, I was very much a positive positivist researcher and taking an objective view of reality out there, and so on. And that shifted, in the 1980s as I moved into this field, and I'm now much more an interpretive researcher, and trying to make sense of practices. I have a quote, which I use for people, and which came from one of the people I interviewed in the 1980s. And he talked about, and his business and he said, It's very, very difficult here. It's all a mishmash of complexities and you, I suppose, and it, what he said was as opposing the academic Researcher 1:world, “this [is] all clear-cut and rational, but here it isn't is it? And you think of us as a load of idiots, and, but that's the way it is”. And that really struck me and stayed with me over the last 45 years or so. And that's what we're trying to understand. It may look irrational, and maybe our concept of rationality is a problem anyway. And what we understand by rational practices, maybe, you know, not what it really means in business. And so that's what I am. And I take a very, interpretivist perspective. And I would say, in many ways I see myself as almost a relativist, but you have to be able to, to justify and provide support for the interpretations that you produce. And some of that is determined by, pragmatically, by what you're trying to do with those interpretations and the problems that you're seeking to address. So the importance of the research questions will [be] driving forward a particular project. But I wouldn't say the answer I've got and the interpretation I've got is the right one. Just one of many, whether it's useful for what I want, wanted to be for, and I've got to justify, I've got to explain in the research, and in the writing - that maybe a bit longer than you intended…
[stephen:0003] Researcher 1: Yeah.
[stephen:0004] Stephen: …but I hope that gives you a feeling for where I am.
[stephen:0005] Researcher 1: Yes, No, this is very useful. And what made, what, were the typical research methods that you use for collecting data? All case studies?
[stephen:0006] Stephen: Okay, case studies. yeah, and…
[stephen:0007] Researcher 1: Yes. Okay.
[stephen:0008] Stephen: …make, I've done quite a number of single case studies trying to understand the specifics of it, a particular organization, and maybe the introduction of the new system, or all the changes in certain systems, or the effects of and particular types of systems coming in. Say, the new technologies now. So on, and for instance, I'm doing the project with some colleagues where we're looking at the way in which, um, digital banking is affecting the way in which, and banks and all the accountants and banks are working, and how they have to be quite flexible and agile in the way in which they work. Whereas in the past, accounting was very boring. It was, you put this there, you put that there, and you go on, but now it's much more fluid. I’m interested in how it works? So, that's the sort of thing that I'd be looking at. And also, I do some where they're multiple case studies, but they're only small numbers, um three or four. And most of my PhD students do similar sorts of case studies.
[stephen:0009] Researcher 1: Okay.
[stephen:0010] Researcher 1: Now, okay. Great, thank you. And do you use specific tools for where to analyze your data?
[stephen:0011] Stephen: No, I've not, over the years I have to say, I've not done much, that much. Well I've not really done any, you know. That's, that's not quite right. I retired in 2006. We're talking 17 years ago, but I've been working since then, and I have done interviews and cases since then, in the, up to about 2010, something like that, when I actually would took part in many interviews.
[stephen:0012] Researcher 1: Okay.
[stephen:0013] Stephen: And now, I'm primarily supporting the research of others, though. I have past, I've had PhD students, I no longer get paid. These students, but I spend these two appointments I've got, I'll primarily to help people, and with their research projects and advise them particularly on the writing of their research papers. And maybe I should just give you a little bit more background about myself, which may put things into a bit more context. And that is that in my field. When it was, I said, we were developing these new approaches and management accounting and together with a colleague. And from LSE, we set up a new journal called Management Accounting Research. In the [19]90’s in 1990, actually. And that journal, and well, as much of current researchers, [was] almost exclusively, um,  quantitative and statistical work. And we made a point of this journal, having a mix of qualitative and quantitative, though, my colleague dealt with the papers that were quantitative and I dealt with the papers that were qualitative. And so that journal has developed, and it's now - it should be four star - but it's only three star. I can say that as somebody who set it up, and I was the editor-in-chief of that for 25 years until 2014. So I've had a lot of experience of developed, and of, you know, commenting on and reviewing or looking at reviews of papers in this sort of field. And so, what I'm doing now is basically drawing on my experiences as an editor and a critique of other people's work to give them advice. So that, that's why that they want me. I, it's nearly 10 years since I retired from there, that leadership, but I was there a long time and I'm closely associated with it. So that, let me just, you know, the reason why I do what I do.
[stephen:0014] Researcher 1: Yes perfect thank you for clarifying that point and well just sort of mentioned this a little bit. But what is your experience of working with qualitative research? Well, how was it, your experience? Like, you mentioned, like, why they decided to switch from quantitative to qualitative research. But like, can you expand a little bit about that?
[stephen:0015] Stephen: Well, I think it all it came about because of this movement, from wanting to tell people what to do, to use, and mathematical models, and to, you then try to understand to what extent they fit the data, and can be used, and an empirical setting in large samples. I'm moving from that to looking within the organization, and trying to understand day-to-day practices. Movement in that direction. And I was one of a, quite a group of people in accounting research, who were looking at different areas of accounting research in the 1980s who moved in that direction. And so I wasn't necessarily working with them, and although, what, I, [in one of] my very first projects I worked with people who came from other areas of management science and organizational science, who were also doing qualitative work and so that's how I interacted, and bringing their methods into the accounting field. Now, I don't know whether that's what you meant. The other side, though, if you talk about working with other people, I think the important thing is basically that you can interact with people and try to guess, and to share your understandings, and build up and understanding of the practices through not just looking at the data and analyzing it independently, but by sharing it, sharing our understandings of that data. And we, a lot of the work that I've done in my own projects has been with people with more than one person doing the interviewing, and then discussing and analyzing the data; multiple people analyzing the data. So, I'm not sure whether that was what you're thinking about?
[stephen:0016] Researcher 1: Yes. Yes, thank you very much. And do you, what is your perception or opinion about open research in general? And if you have practised it?
[stephen:0017] Stephen: Yeah. When, when I, saw your question and request for filling in the question my first thought was um open access as distinct from open research. If you say, you know, the journals and you know, having been an editor, and I know, and in recent times journals allow people to pay a fee and then their papers are open access. And I thought of that at first. I wasn't sure where you were going, and with that, it was interesting when I got into that, which is partly why I thought it would be interesting to talk to you as well about it. My biggest issue about that would be the confidentiality issue. All the work that I do is with companies. In my case, mostly large companies, and, but also some smaller ones. And the data is shared on a confidential basis. Very rarely would we disclose the name of the organization. We may disguise the identity of the organization and maybe say it's in a different industry to the one that it sits in for confidentiality reasons, because companies are talking to us about what is potentially commercially sensitive information. Now, we don't get involved in the numbers. You [know], how profitable is this product versus that product? Well, how do you evaluate the productivity? How do you, how do you manage your organization? Now, that's going to be, you know, confidential. They're going to be sensitive about that, and they don't necessarily want to share all their good ideas directly with competitors, and like, they're happy to do it in a general sense. When we talk about it in a sort of some, one step removed away from the organization,
[stephen:0018] Stephen: So that was when I when, I realized what you were talking about. My first thought, that I don't think I could have done any of the research that I've done, if I couldn't guarantee some level of confidentiality. And so, if that, that would certainly mean I couldn't pass on to anybody else the recordings or the transcripts. I could only publish the type of information that I had agreed with them. So that, that may be a particular issue in relation to the sorts of things that you have in mind.
[stephen:0019] Researcher 1: Yeah. Now, that's definitely a common challenge when doing qualitative research, specifically with, when working on sensitive topics or with vulnerable population groups. And in this case, what will be a sensitive topic. So, and when open research, is more about or making data open, I mean it's to follow the principle of making it as as open as possible and as close as necessary, and so yeah, I mean but that is a common, how you say hurdle that researchers have mentioned, like, how to guarantee confidentiality when making it open? So yeah, but thanks for that opinion, and…
[stephen:0020] Stephen: Yeah, there’s one more thing as well, that's related to this, and that is, that is probably the way I work, but I think it is also a general issue I mentioned before, that the understanding developed through the group, talking about the details and, and sharing our, our understandings, not just of of a transcript or, or something of that nature, but the understanding we we developed from the organization through our visits. There are discussions about it. So there's more information that we use in a sense than [are] there in the data. Yeah, maybe that's the wrong way around. But you mean, there's things that we get from our understanding of the company,…
[stephen:0021] Researcher 1: s
[stephen:0022] Stephen: …which isn't necessarily written down. It enters the analysis only in a subjective way, and I fear to some extent, that if the analysis of that data was done by somebody who had no contact with the organization, with the people in the organization, it would be a very different understanding of that data, and in some ways, somewhat sterile. They would lose the depths that one can get from coupling the understanding of the organization with the data that we've collected from the organization.
[stephen:0023] Researcher 1: Yeah. Yes. Yeah, that is also one of the things many researchers say, like how to convey this to another person, another researcher, about the context where [and] when the research took place. And also about the specific participants, and in your case, if you're doing like a collaborative type of analysis, then also, like, that influences, and it's yeah, it's one of the challenges when making qualitative data open
[stephen:0024] Stephen: And some of it. Is potentially available in that, when I teach courses on doing case study research in the management field, So it's a range of different people. I'm talking to but when I I talk about that, I always emphasize the importance of a field diary. And recording other things that you say, and so on. And because the feelings that you get at the time may dissipate, and so, you write as much of that down as possible. I always admit that I never write a diary, and because I don't like writing, but I record everything. And so, if I'm going to interview somebody, I have on the beginning of the recording, my thoughts. And if there's two or more of us going, that we would discuss that probably for half an hour or so before we we go into the interview. And if at all possible, as soon as possible after the interview we'd have a debrief, as it were, and we discuss what we found and the issues and then that would be part of the recording. And then we'd have other meetings to discuss any recent interviews or whatever. So they will be recorded. So everything is getting recorded, and in a sense, it is available. And so that might be one way, whether the issues that we're thinking about could be available to a broader audience, and it's good. [What] I tell the people in my course is, that's good practice - for you to be able to review it. Why you were interviewing somebody at a particular time, and what you felt when you were there. So you need to get that, as part of the of database. So it wouldn't just be the transcription, a few notes about it. It should be quite comprehensive. Okay. Now I don't know to what extent people in other fields regularly do that, of the view, and with that, I'm fairly sure that that's not normally [the] practice, and not the practice of everybody in my field.
[stephen:0025] Researcher 1: Yeah, yes, that is a good practice. I think to have the field diary, and I mean if in your discipline, it is, well because I'm a geographer, and and we work, well most human geographers tend to work solo, so we don't really have meetings to debrief on interviews, but we do well I did use the field diary. And it was very, very useful and also like I could not. I cannot disclose my data, but I think I could disclose part of some extracts from the, from my diary, I think, if I wanted to make my data open and…
[stephen:0026] Stephen: Yeah?
[stephen:0027] Researcher 1: Well, you've already mentioned a lot of these, my following question, but I will, I just ask you in case you have another point to share. Um, what is your perception and opinion of of making qualitative data open access, and be broadly or…
[stephen:0028] Stephen: I hadn't thought about it in the past because of the practicalities, I think that's my, that’s my main thing. As a researcher in general terms, and academic, um, sharing information with others, other researchers has to be, um, something that we should welcome in whatever way is possible. And at one level, I [would] say, yeah in principle everything should be be open. But then there becomes a practicality of what it is that's open, and the relationship with the client with us. Some really call compliance, but with the companies, and falling back into an accounting job.
[stephen:0029] Researcher 1: Yes.
[stephen:0030] Stephen: But, and yeah. And so I would, I would say in principle, it's something to be welcomed in practice. I find it very difficult to know how it might be achieved, at least in the sort of research that I do.
[stephen:0031] Researcher 1: Yeah. Thank you for that. And well, you're also mentioned a little bit of the barriers of making open a qualitative data open access but I don't know if you have any other that you have considered with besides the ones you've mentioned about commercial sensitivity insurance confidentiality and also conveying the context of the research and, and, and the participant or companies.
[stephen:0032] Stephen: yeah, I think that yeah, it. I suppose I'm just, and what I'm just thinking about, is that we talk about commercial and confidentiality to the organization. I think there's also issues of confidentiality to the individuals that you research, and that can be an issue in itself. Even in the types of research that, and I do I have, in my very early days I did run into problems as a result of that. Because I guaranteed a confidentiality to people, I was looking at an organizations where they were undergoing change and there was resistance to change, and so on, and people were telling me things about why they didn't want to do this, or why this wasn't working and so on, and I guaranteed to them, I would, I wouldn't pass on what they told me to their colleagues. And I haven't really thought it through because it as I say, it was in my early days and when we got to the end of the project, we had a really good story to tell about resistance to change. But we couldn't tell it, not in a story, because to do so - and to publish details of the case - would more than likely have made it possible for colleagues to identify who said what - even if you change the context, and so on. If people know you've been in their organization, and they say a case of something, which has some similarities, it may say it's in a different company in a different part of the country or something. But ‘oh that's where [Name redacted], where he was with us’ - that this looked like us, and so we couldn't publish that research and what we did, we published the overall findings in a more theoretical, methodological way. We still got some papers, we got a really good paper out of this, which was something that was - and still is - widely cited.
[stephen:0033] Stephen: But that didn't have the detail of it. It just had the broader picture, which may be why it’s quite more widely cited actually now, but yeah, I learned from that one has to be careful from and think through what you are committing yourself to in terms of confidentiality, and then you have to accept that - what you're committing to. And it shouldn't come as a surprise if you thought this through properly, and then you can decide how you're going to publish, and that I want PhD students about that, because it can create problems if they've then got to publish papers quite quickly. But for me, and at that stage in my career, it didn't matter that I wasn't getting out the papers I thought I would get out. I've got other papers out, it might be different in the different direction, but it was still, you know, very good. Very good for me. But somebody who's got to do something in three years or four years, that can be problematic
[stephen:0034] Researcher 1: Yeah. Well, that's a very good story. Well, examples of these issues, And you couldn't see there are, do you have any idea of what could be an enabling factor to make qualitative data open access?
[stephen:0035] Stephen: Hmm.
[stephen:0036] Stephen: I'm really not, really it's more of a whimsical point about change of [the] type of research we do. Certainly not what we, you were thinking about, because some of it just can't, I don't think could be done given the context of the material, and one could try to focus on certain issues which may be more accessible or may companies maybe more willing to be open about. But friends that I have, [have] had experiences of companies - and in some cases big companies - and who say we can't quote, we can't even cite their company, or can't say it's their company, but we can still report what they've done. And even if we can report it in such a way that it becomes obvious who they are, but as long as we don't mention their name, it's okay. For instance, I was doing some work on multinationals. and I was talking to people and I asked them about things, and I said to them, because what was important in this case was that it was being split and split across a number of countries, and that was one of the issues that we were looking at, and I asked them if we could sign their name, They said, ‘No, you can't you can't use [Redacted - Company name]’. and I said, ‘Well if we, how come? We're normalizing this, and what can we do?’ And they seem to be happy enough for me to say this is . But that's okay. So long as you don't say [Redacted - Company name], And it,…
[stephen:0037] Researcher 1: Hmm.
[stephen:0038] Stephen: …one of the things they said, if it has our name on it, it has to go through the lawyers. And if it's anonymized, even in a way that makes it clear [that] it is, they don't have the same concerns about it. Even if it's very open information, that they're happy to share. If their name is on it, it has to go through the lawyers before anything can be published about it, which is extreme, but yeah. So there's a variety of things, and I suppose that sort of issue, we could show the data. So it depends how commercially sensitive and how general the issues are that, what, that we’re researching.
[stephen:0039] Researcher 1: You well. So in regards to your ethics, you said you haven’t made your own qualitative data open access… but in case you were to do this, how would you approach your participants, in regards of protecting them and gaining ethical approval, is that common in your discipline?
[stephen:0040] Stephen: Well, I have to say, first of all, that I have not gone through the current type of ethical approval on the project I had undertaken. As I mentioned, the last project I undertook was interviewing people, and it was around 2007, 2008, 2009, and that was done in . And that, so that became subject to ethical approval, which my recollection is, one particularly and onerous at that time. And so going back before that, when I was personally doing the research and I was the primary researcher and, there wasn't the same concern, and it was very broad and…
[stephen:0041] Stephen: …the idea was, if you're independent, no. If your participants are in a dependent position to - only dependent in some way - on you, and vulnerable, you have to go through ethical approval. And whereas, if you're doing, and it [was] sort of [the] argument we put forward at the time, I'm not sure how far it went through a formal process, but the arguments that we put - maybe just to ourselves - is that the sort of research that there were dependent on the company's telling of things. So we, at that time, didn't, but we justified not putting through ethical approval on that fact, that they're not dependent on us, we're dependent on them. If they don't like what we're doing, they kick us out anytime and and so on. And so, we we didn't do it, that is15 years or so. And these things have become much richer, and spending quite a bit of time as the present discussing with people, ethical approvals, and particularly in relation to doing projects on and involving students and as well as supporting researchers. And now, in the last five years or so, and hoping to support people who are on teaching contracts, or teaching and scholarship contracts, who are increasingly being pressurized to do pedagogic research. And they need to do that if they're going to progress for Lecturer/Senior Lecturer and through the Chair, those systems have been really well developed I think. And in the last probably eight to ten years, something like that. And so, I have a role in [REDACTED – TWO CITY NAMES] of helping people in that and on those contracts to do budget research of some sorts. We're increasingly looking at the different systems for ethical approval and how and how onerous that they can be. And that makes me also concerned about how an ethical and committed ethics committees will respond, in terms of information being made publicly available. We're under so much pressure as to what, you know, ethical procedures to be, so careful, particularly with GDPR and so on. How the information is stored, and how long it is stored for, where it is stored, and how we use that information. And so, I don't know quite how that would work with making interview data or whatever, open access. I'm just thinking about how difficult [for] people I'm working with, and so I, I need to get advice from the experts on the ethical approval. With, in fact, we had a couple of our seminars last week, from the person in the business school, who's responsible for the system of ethical approvals. And thought into this, about how to go about ethical approval for the pedagogic research, and so that, so yeah. So I'm not not that up to date with what it involves for the type of research that I've done.
[stephen:0042] Researcher 1: Okay, that's perfect. Thank you so much. And you already mentioned a little bit about Your epistemics, you’ve been an interpretivist and almost a relativist. And how do you feel if this academic foundation, are they compatible or have tensions in regards [to] making qualitative data open access?
[stephen:0043] Stephen: No, ah, in some ways, one would think that that they could be a spurs of that because you need one. One would recognize that other people were seeing certain things differently, and so as a sort of philosophical research, philosophy level, and it would be, to be able to make it available - and people to draw other interpretations, and then to have broader debates on those interpretations. It would be taking us into the dimension, potentially, of multiparadigm research. Which, it, I think is possible in principle, and I have [had] some discussion with people about that, and, but I'm not really seeing it. Well, really, well in practice. And now I'm talking, I'm not talking about, specifically about, mixed-methods - which just have quantitative and qualitative. I’m talking about, you know, combining things like interpretive and um, positivism, or in using different and theoretical and ontological underpinnings for interpretive type research.
[stephen:0044] Researcher 1: Yeah, that would be very good. Yes, yes.
[stephen:0045] Stephen: Yeah, it would be interesting. Yeah.
[stephen:0046] Researcher 1: Yeah, and that's a really good point. Thanks, thanks for that. And In the case you were pursuing a new research project, would you make your own qualitative data open access and why?
[stephen:0047] Stephen: Well, I think the confidentiality would just not make it possible in the, you know, the social thing that I'm interested in. Organizations that, if I said that all the interviews we’re doing are going to be shared with somebody, and I can't tell you who they are, [or] what they're going to do with it. No.
[stephen:0048] Researcher 1: Yes. How likely is that you use qualitative data generated by others on an open access basis as a secondary data set?
[stephen:0049] Stephen: If it was available and relevant, I would use it.I don't have any, you know, any fundamental objection to it. It's very much a practical objection to it, and if some of it is available because of some particular issues of, and the practicalities. Yeah. I would use it, if relevant and so on.
[stephen:0050] Researcher 1: Okay. Yes, perfect, thank you. And do you have any awareness of existing guidance or resources for making qualitative data open access?
[stephen:0051] Stephen: No, no. Until I got your question. I hadn't even thought about it, and as I said, when I saw your question and I interpreted it, you know, that the request in a different terms…
[stephen:0052] Researcher 1: Is.
[stephen:0053] Stephen: until I got into the questions and I thought, Oh, asking me about something different. Yeah.
[stephen:0054] Researcher 1: Okay. Thanks and and the union have an idea of what would be useful or needed to encourage researchers for making their own research data open access.
[stephen:0055] Stephen: I suppose there's two things that I'm not sure [about]. What, one is, what we've been talking about is, I will make it available, we made available, yeah, the practicalities of confidentiality and sensitivity of information, etc. And so that's one side of it. The other side of it is the issue of protecting one's and intellectual property. And this applies equally to people who are doing any quantitative research. I've not come across it as much recently. Maybe I'm just not being involved with the same sort of people, but there are times when I was very conscious of people doing quantitative research, who were very reluctant to give, to present papers at conferences as ‘oh no, somebody might pinch my idea before I get it to a journal’ or something, and that sort of protection of intellectual property was problematic for some people. That wouldn't bother me quite so much, because as an interpretivist, it's mine and so, if somebody else takes it, it'll be very, it would be different, and the interesting debates come about by us discussing that, and hopefully that will generate more more knowledge through those sorts of debates. Whereas, the quantitative people seem to think, well, if somebody's done that, I can't do this. Now I'm going to do this, [if] somebody does it first, that I've lost my work in that, and so I don't have any particular issues around that, but it's very much the practical
[stephen:0056] Researcher 1: Here. Yeah, the practicalities and…
[stephen:0057] Stephen: Yeah.
[stephen:0058] Researcher 1: …well you've mentioned that you were not very aware of open research, and well, [it] entails making data and analysis, open, but I'm gonna ask you if you have any understanding of of the workflow involved when doing open qualitative research, like from planning the project to the data repository.
[stephen:0059] Stephen: No idea. So through, how that would work, you know. In a sense, this data at the end, that's all the transcripts and other information, and the database, and how that's going to be made available. Don't know. It's a massive amount, but given, and current computer systems, and I don't see any - you know, problem in principle - but we [have] very large databases, and then access, but then maybe AI will be used to interrogate them, and maybe, but that may be a downside as well, because it may then mean that the research will be done by computers, rather than by individuals. And yes, computers can do certain things, but they left the human touch. But to say, we haven’t had a discussion about these sorts of things, yet. This afternoon a seminar that I'm organizing on the use of AI in qualitative research. And yeah, you can play around with the computers, can play around with the data, so, but they don't understand it. No, there's no understanding at least not with current AI. Whether there will be in the future. Don't know.
[stephen:0060] Researcher 1: Yeah, I hope not. And and…
[stephen:0061] Stephen: Yeah.
[stephen:0062] Researcher 1: …well this is another question, about understanding the workflow but involved with using an existing open qualitative research data set as a second as secondary basis. Do you have any idea how would it be?
[stephen:0063] Stephen: Well, coming from my background as a journal editor for many years, I was thinking when the one possibility is - when you publish a piece of paper, a paper and the database could be made accessible through the publishers, and that happens to some extent now, and a very limited extent - and particular, but more and more particularly in quantitative research, where additional data and additional tests and so on and can be reported. Aligned and accessible via the journal. But so that's one possibility. But we're talking about large databases, and I'm not sure that publishers would want to get involved in that, because it's going to be presumably reasonably costly. So they would need to be some central organization to, maybe related to research councils or whatever, who would manage that? Excuse me about that.
[stephen:0064] Researcher 1: No, it's okay, I understand. Well thank you very much. That was my last question. I think this conversation was very insightful and very…
[stephen:0065] Stephen: Okay.
[stephen:0066] Researcher 1: …interesting. Ihave to meet my, because my background is in business before doing the PhD, but I never thought about these complexities, about doing academic research in finance and an accounting. So it was very interesting, and so I'm going to make like, a very brief summary of the key points that you made during this interview just for you to confirm. And so, yeah, well you mentioned that you started as a positive researcher, but by then you, like, that they, like, they - what you were like finding out as a practice, as a research, it was applied in practice. Then you are, you shifted your focus on trying to understand the nature of management practice, and then you became a qualitative researcher. Well, without an interpretivist near relativist stance. And you mentioned that in your case, making or - in your discipline - making open and like making qualitative data open access is the biggest issue, would be confidentiality because you work with big and and smaller companies. That agreed to share their data, or let you in to research, and as a - under a confidentiality basis. So you cannot disclose the identity of their organizations. And because of the type of companies researching, it would [not] be possible to anonymize their data and make it open. And there's also, you talk about issues about commercial sensitivity, and management practice - that the companies you work with, they won’t want their competitors to know. So that is  the biggest issue. And, and with that, and you mentioned that there would be a way of doing it by maybe like, well, you encouraged your, your students to carry on with field and diaries, and where they can't record their feelings and thoughts, and also like the meetings, the briefing after that data collection or doing interviews. So in a way this type of data could be made open, and also like to help other researchers, like, get context of what is what happened, during the data collection? And you say, well, that in principle, you think it is, well, that open qualitative. Well, yeah, open research in general is a good practice because it allows collaboration with other academics. But in your field of research, that the practicalities that preclude researchers from making the data open. And so, the barriers you mentioned are like commercial confidentiality with the organization, and also with the individuals you interview within those organizations and besides, the other barriers that you also mentioned as enabling factors could be and working with companies that are more open to share or more willing to be open, and also it would depend on the commercial sensitivity on the issue and how generalized or general is the topic. And well, you think in terms of the epistemics, it would be good to make qualitative data open access and and maybe enabling this multiparadigm research that goes with applying a quantitative and qualitative methods in, within our research project, but by combining different interpretations and maybe a different epistemological foundations behind this interpretations. And yes, you mentioned that, yes you would use a qualitative secondary qualitative data sets if they were relevant, but that - but to research interests, but it might not be very practical, and so that's the mai, covering everything I have now, on [the] top of my mind, I don't know if they were okay?
[stephen:0067] Researcher 1: …from their perspective?
[stephen:0068] Stephen: …And so, having a sense of place and so on, and that's something to open up new ideas and new directions, probably [a] direction I won't travel, because [I’m] at the end of my career, but I'm trying to encourage people to start moving in that sort of direction, which sort of the raised issues about the relevance of research. And that we can understand this, we've spent a lot of time understanding practice, but putting my sort of reviewers’ hat on, from asking a question at the end of a paper ‘So what?..’ What do we do with all this, and say about the field? We've got all this knowledge about how practice works. So, and I think that's a stage where we are in our my field. There's anything, well, what do we do with this knowledge? How can we use that in some way? And I'm watching, may be relevant, and so opening up those sorts of issues as well. I'm not sure what that we’ll do to qualitative research, probably, and they, it needs to be much more involved with people - not just going and interviewing people, but being one of the things an anthropologist who talks about standing in the midst. And I'm being part of it, but that's, that's something we're, we're now moving at least…
[stephen:0069] Researcher 1: …is…
[stephen:0070] Stephen: …what I'm moving, and in my discussions with people, but during research on that and…
[stephen:0071] Researcher 1: Yeah.
[stephen:0072] Stephen: …past the actual research stage, but…
[stephen:0073] Researcher 1: Yes. Well, I think, but for me, like, for understanding actually a place, but I didn't do a, I mean, I did some participant research methods. I use some participant research methods and I try that the findings would come, like, from the voices of the people I interviewed in in the communities I worked [with] and, but I mean, it wasn't like a participatory production of knowledge…
[stephen:0074] Stephen: Mmm.
[stephen:0075] Researcher 1: …because it was a big disease, but I think in in geography are there like many researchers trying to do this, the colonial approaches are applied, this, the colonial approaches, the research and, and like, all and encouraged like co-production with the communities and…
[stephen:0076] Stephen: Yeah.
[stephen:0077] Researcher 1: …doing participatory action research, and that is led by the communities. There are some practicalities with how I got academic institutions’ work, because it's not like they can allocate like funding, and the name of the - there wouldn't be participants anymore. They will be like, go investigate, and…
[stephen:0078] Stephen: Yeah.
[stephen:0079] Researcher 1: …but I weigh, I think, like to improve and understanding of a place we will be, like, to do some co-production of knowledge with the participants that agreed to. Because that's also, like, one of the barriers, like, what is it special? Well, I work with [a] vulnerable community. So what it is they have, to also win something from me, and they have to be interested in my - not be really for them. But like a production, I think it would be another way to try to make sense or or have a more grassroots perspective of a place. And, I think also, well in geography, we have this in human geography, and this practice of always Making clear your positionality and being very reflective during the process. So, also explain in your research, like, what are the - what is your place - and within that context. So like I don't know. Maybe someone else would see them, and will say like, ‘Oh, these are the potential biases’. ‘This person has’ or, or so I think that's also a good practice also, like, well, to let know, others know ‘This is, like, my place in the research’ and ‘This is my, and these are like the biases I have. This is…and these are like’ that, I, at least that I can perceive - so that other people know, like, what could be - or how to have an idea of how some of my conclusions came, or my findings  ame to place by reading these, or by, but yeah, that's also practice. But yes, I think I mean, in a way research is like art - when you, like paint, something is your interpretation of that - things like this in qualitative research as well, it's because it's interpretive is a research. So it's your interpretation of that aspect of reality and someone like, if within that, that is from that space with perceive with differently and…
[stephen:0080] Stephen: Yeah.
[stephen:0081] Researcher 1: …it and it does. I don't think that, not that neither perceptions are wrong. I mean, I may be the other one, have more detail. But like, and by being an outsider, you also have a different - or you can see all the things that someone inside the space would not see. So, I don't know. I think it's, it's a very complex topic and it's
[stephen:0082] Stephen: Really fascinating area. It's going to meet a question…
[stephen:0083] Researcher 1: Yeah, yes.
[stephen:0084] Stephen: …what I've done over the last 40 years, but that's what research is, you know. It moves on. So hopefully people will take these forward and question what I've done, and others. I'm only one of the, you know, on the field. The field has come on, but I'm learning now,…
[stephen:0085] Researcher 1: Yeah.
[stephen:0086] Stephen: …it's, it's cost to develop otherwise which is it, which is interesting. So anyway,…
[stephen:0087] Researcher 1: Yeah.
[stephen:0088] Stephen: I just appreciate that. Thank you very much for that. And oh,…
[stephen:0089] Researcher 1: I hope it was helpful.
[stephen:0090] Stephen: …you made me think about, you know, the positionality of making the positionality clear, I'll never never know. Put that down. I thought of it, but never sort of expressed it in those terms. All. So, thank you very much.
[stephen:0091] Researcher 1: I have, welcome. No thanks. Thank you. And well,…
[stephen:0092] Stephen: Okay.
[stephen:0093] Researcher 1: Do you have any questions about the project or concerns?
[stephen:0094] Stephen: And no, I'm thinking I think we've talked through everything.
[stephen:0095] Researcher 1: Perfect. Perfect.
[stephen:0096] Stephen: Yes. Yeah.
[stephen:0097] Researcher 1: So I will send you the transcription - like edited transcription for you to review. And also I will send you the details of stakeholders’  worship, in case you're able to come to Sheffield.
[stephen:0098] Stephen: Yeah. Mmm.
[stephen:0099] Researcher 1: And are you still happy with the consent? You gave before the interview?
[stephen:0100] Stephen: Yes, no problems.
[stephen:0101] Researcher 1: Perfect. Thank you. And would you prefer to be anonymised or directly named in the outputs? And would you prefer for us to use a pseudonym?
[stephen:0102] Stephen: Sorry, say again, what's the first one?
[stephen:0103] Stephen: Oh, okay. No, I'm happy to be referenced. Nothing. I wouldn't say to a general audience
[stephen:0104] Researcher 1: Okay, perfect, thank you very much. I'll stop recording now and thank you very much for your time.
